1
What Matters in Building Vision-Language-Action
Models for Generalist Robots
Xinghang Li 1,2,6, Peiyan Li 2,3, Long Qian 6, Minghuan Liu 2,4, Dong Wang 1,2, Jirong Liu 2,4,
Bingyi Kang 2, Xiao Ma 2, Xinlong Wang 6, Di Guo 7, Tao Kong 2,B, Hanbo Zhang 5,B, Huaping Liu 1,B
1Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University,
2ByteDance Research, 3CASIA MAIS-NLPR,
4Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 5National University of Singapore
6Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence, 7Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
taokongcn@gmail.com,zhanghb@comp.nus.edu.sg,
hpliu@tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract
To utilize Foundation Vision Language Models (VLMs) for robotic tasks and motion planning, the community has proposed
different methods for injecting action components into VLMs and building the Vision-Language-Action models (VLAs). In this
work, we disclose the key factors that significantly influence the performance of VLA on robot manipulation problems and focus
on answering three essential design choices: which backbone to select, how to formulate the VLA architectures, and when to add
cross-embodiment data. The obtained results convince us firmly to explain why we prefer VLA and develop a new family of VLAs,
RoboVLMs, which require very few manual designs and achieve a new state-of-the-art performance in three simulation tasks
and real-world experiments. Through our extensive experiments, which include over 8 VLM backbones, 4 policy architectures,
and over 600 distinct designed experiments, we provide a detailed guidebook for the future design of VLAs. In addition to the
study, the highly flexible RoboVLMs framework, which supports easy integrations of new VLMs and free combinations of various
design choices, is made public to facilitate future research. We open-source all details, including codes, models, datasets, and
toolkits, along with detailed training and evaluation recipes at: robovlms.github.io.
Index Terms
Robot Foundation Models, Vision-Language-Action Models, Generalist Robot Policies
I. INTRODUCTION
Building generalizable robot policies capable of perceiving, reasoning, and interacting with the physical environment given
human instructions has been a long-standing challenge in robotics [ 4, 5, 7, 27, 33]. Recently, there has been an active exploration
ofVision-Language-Action Models(VLAs), namely, a family of learning-based robot foundation models directly built upon
generalistVision-Language Models(VLMs), and they have demonstrated promising results of semantic generality in both
simulated and real-world tasks [ 7, 20, 22] (Although the rigorous definition of VLAs is not consistent in different works, we
regard the ones directly built upon large-scale VLMs along with robot-domain data as the key factor to identify VLAs in this
work.). As shown in Fig. 1a, existing robot policies can be categorized into four main groups: (1)Model-Free Learning,
which encode the state into a latent representation and use a policy network to predict actions, enabling generalization across
different embodiments; (2)Model-Based Learning, which rely on the robot’s affordances and explicit models of the robot and
environment, limiting their applicability to specific configurations; (3)World Model Based Learning, which predicts future
goal images and derives actions via inverse dynamics models; and (4)Vision-Language-Action (VLA) Model, representing a
specialized branch of model-free learning that leverages the generalization and robustness of Vision-Language Models (VLMs)
by employing them as state encoders. Therefore, a natural question arises:Whydo we preferVLAs built upon large-scale
pre-trained VLMs? As shown in Fig. 1a, VLA is a newly raised model-free learning framework that receives natural language
instruction as input and learns a generalist policy, rather than task-specific policies in traditional model-free learning. The
widely-believed reason is that VLAs may inherit the power of VLMs, which have been shown powerful in learning generalized
and robust representations of multi-modal data, such as text, images/videos, through extensive training on web-scale data. Such
capabilities can facilitate the adaptation of robot foundation models to highly diverse open-world scenes with limited robotic
data. However, it remains an open problem how large-scale vision-language pre-training facilitates generalist robot policies.
While VLAs have shown early promise, effectively transferring pre-trained VLMs into high-performing robot policies remains
non-trivial. Challenges still remain in how to sufficiently and efficiently select and utilize: 1) vision-language backbones; 2)
formulation that best leverages multi-modal representations; and 3) the increasing robot data. As shown in Fig. 2, to address
these challenges, we focus on three critical questions:
1. Which kind of VLM backbones are suitable for VLAs?Selecting an appropriate VLM backbone is a fundamental yet
underexplored design choice in adapting vision-language models for robotic control. Modern VLMs vary widely in architecture.
They differ in model capacity, visual encoder structure, fusion mechanisms, and data scale. While these models are originally
arXiv:2412.14058v4  [cs.RO]  13 Feb 20262
One Step Historical
Discrete
Continuous
Policy Head
Interleaved
One-Step
RoboFlamingo (2023)RoboMamba (2023)
GR-1 (2023)
GR-2 (2024)
Octo (2023)
RT-2-X (2023)
OpenVLA (2024)
TraceVLA (2024)
RT-1-X (2023)
3D-VLA (2024)
3D Diﬀuser (2024)
LLaRA (2024)
RoboUniview (2024)
DeeRVLA (2024)
0 (2024)π
GaTo (2022)
RoboCat (2023)
ACT (2023)
Open-Sourced
Close-Sourced
0.5 (2025)π
GROOT (2025)
Unfold the cloth
InstructionObservation
Proprioception
State Encoder
Policy Network
Environment
Action
Model-Free LearningModel-Based Learning
InstructionObservation
Proprioception
State Estimator
Planner / MPC
Controller
Environment
Action
World Model Based Learning
InstructionObservation
Proprioception World Model
Goal Image
Inverse Dynamics Model
Action
Environment
Vision-Language-Action Model
InstructionObservation
Proprioception
Pre-trained VLM
Action Decoder
Environment
Action
Task Type
 Unfold the cloth
Unfold the clothUnfold the cloth
(a) The illustration of strategies of learning-based robot policies. The existing robot policies can be categorized into the following 
four classes: Model-Free Learning, Model-Based Learning, World Model Based Learning, and Vision-Language-Action Model. 
The former three formulations consider the language-conditioned manipulation in different manners: Model-free Learning 
encodes the state into latent variables and utilizes a task-specific policy network to predict the action. Model-based learning solves 
the manipulation problem by decomposition. Yet, for tasks with complex dynamics (e.g., opening doors or cutting apples), an 
accurate dynamics model is demanded, while it is extremely hard to learn and generalize.  World-model-based learning predicts 
the goal states (e.g., the goal image) and predicts actions accordingly. While the vision-language-action model is a specific branch 
of model-free learning, which fully exploits the generalization and robustness of vision-language models (VLMs), and utilizes 
VLMs as the state encoder, facilitating strong performance on unknown object semantics and instruction following.
(b) The structure categorization of the existing generalist policies and recent works, based on two primary levels: 1) action space 
(vertical axis); and 2) whether the history information is integrated (horizontal axis). Moreover, for the VLAs that involved history, 
we split the VLAs that involved history into policy head and interleaved formulation based on the organization pattern of the history 
information. Note that this categorization not only considers models derived from pre-trained VLMs but also encompasses policy 
architectures that, while not pre-trained on VLMs (and therefore not claimed as VLAs), can provide insights into transforming 
VLMs into VLAs. Note that the works lied in the gray circle refer to the VLMs-based VLAs.
Fig. 1: The strategies of learning-based robot policies and the categorization and the recent generalist policies.3
VLMs
Flamingo
Language
open the oven
Multi-View Arbitrary Horizon
Vision
Various Scenarios & TasksMultiple Embodiments
RoboVLMs
…
LLaVAMoonDream
PaliGemmaQwen
KOSMOS
VLMs
When to use 
Extra Data
How
 To 
Formulate
Which Backbone
Action 
Space
History  
Aggregation Data 
Scale
VLM 
Structure
Cross-
Embodiemt
In-Domain
Obs 
 Horizon
Fig. 2: This work mainly considers three key ingredients for building VLAs based on VLMs:Howto formulate the problem
modeled by VLAs (i.e., observation horizon, action space, and how to aggregate history knowledge);Whichbackbone to
use (i.e., various VLM structures, and the data scaled used for the VLM training); andWhento use extra data source to
improve the VLA performance in the tested scenario (e.g., in domain robot data on different tasks, and cross-embodiment data).
With our proposedRoboVLMs, we can easily transfer various VLMs into generalist robot policies, while supporting multiple
embodiments, scenarios, and tasks.
trained for general vision-language tasks, their effectiveness in policy learning depends on how well they can encode physical
object properties, spatial relationships, and task-relevant semantics. Existing works are based on diversified VLM structures,
and most of them show promising results on adaptation to diverse and complicated manipulation skills. Yet, there is no
comprehensive study on how backbone choices impact downstream robot manipulation performance, and hence, it remains an
open problem: Which kind of VLM backbones facilitates the VLA learning most.
2. How should VLAs be formulated to best leverage VLMs?Beyond the diversity of different backbones, for generalist
robot policies, including VLAs, the structures are more complex and vary in form. Based on the most prevalent existing
work [4, 7, 18, 20, 22, 32, 33, 38, 45, 53], we propose a categorization based on 1) how the history and action information
are incorporated in VLAs and 2) whether the action space is continuous or discrete. As shown in Fig. 1b, four types of
structure formulations are considered. For history information modeling, two forms are identified: 1) one-step modeling, which
utilizes only the current state or observation to produce actions; and 2) history modeling, which processes a sliding window
of historical states or observations. Regarding the aggregation of history information, we classify it into two approaches: a)
interleaved modeling, which integrates historical observation and action sequences in an interleaved format; and b) policy head,
which separately processes each historical step and fuses the information at a distinct policy head for action prediction. These
above-mentioned formulations leverage the pre-trained VLMs in their different ways. Hence, they may have different features
in terms of robustness, generalization ability, and data efficiency when faced with various types of environments and tasks.
Therefore, it is practically important but underexplored to understand: How should we formulate VLAs to sufficiently leverage
the power of VLMs in practice?
3. When should we leverage the public diverse robot data for optimal training?In addition to the VLA itself, the quality
and diversity of the training data used to develop VLAs are equally critical. With recent progress achieved by well-known
VLAs [4, 7, 20, 33, 38], large-scale data from different embodiments (also known as cross-embodiment data) is important
to further improve performance in terms of robustness and generalization against out-of-distribution tasks and environments.
Yet, they differ largely in detailed training recipes: some utilize cross-embodiment data to 1) pre-train a foundation VLA
from VLMs by refining representations closer to robotic manipulation tasks [ 4, 54] and 2) post-train the VLA with in-domain
data; while others co-train VLAs with cross-embodiment data alongside in-domain data [ 7, 20, 33, 38]. Moreover, by being
sufficiently pre-trained on cross-embodiment datasets, VLAs are expected to learn new skills with minimal demonstrations [ 12].
Consequently, in the case of developing efficient VLAs, when to leverage the large-scale cross-embodiment data becomes an
intriguing issue.
To thoroughly study the aforementioned key questions, we propose a general framework,RoboVLMs, to easily transfer the
VLMs into VLAs and implement a fair comparison. We evaluate these models on two popular robot manipulation benchmarks in
simulation:CALVIN[ 30] andSimplerEnv[ 35]. Moreover, we also trained and evaluated the built VLAs on a real-world robot
manipulation dataset, consisting of 100 manipulation tasks and a total of 74K trajectories. Specifically, we initially selected4
three commonly used VLMs–LLaV A, Flamingo, and KosMos, as backbones, combining each with the four VLA structures
illustrated in Fig. 1b to examine the effects of action space, observation horizon, and history aggregating methods. With the
finding that the policy head modeling with continuous action space performs best, we compare 8 various VLMs as the backbone
with policy head formulation to answer which backbone is more suitable. Meanwhile, we compare the generalization and data
efficiency of different VLA structures. For the question of when to leverage cross-embodiment data, we compare co-training
(the VLAs trained with Open X-Embodiment), finetuning (the VLAs trained with the target dataset), and post-training (the
VLAs co-trained with Open X-Embodiment and further finetuned with the target dataset). Finally, to confirm the real-world
applicability of the VLAs with the optimal configuration, we trained and evaluated them in real-world robot manipulation
scenarios, demonstrating generalization across 1) unseen distractors, 2) unseen backgrounds, 3) unseen target objects, and 4)
novel skill descriptions.
Through our extensive and comprehensive studies, we derive conclusions on how to build high-performance VLAs around
the following questions:
Why do we prefer VLAs?VLAs built upon pre-trained VLMs have proven to be both effective and efficient for generalist robot
policies. Across all experiments, including simulations and real-world manipulation tasks, our VLA consistently outperforms
open-source state-of-the-art VLAs by a significant margin. Furthermore, pre-trained VLMs exhibit notable advantages in
generalization and data efficiency, making them highly desirable for real-world robotic applications.
Which VLM backbone is more suitable for VLAs?Our extensive study on 8 different VLM backbones shows two distinguished
VLM backbones, namely KosMos [ 34] and Paligemma [ 3], which significantly outperform the others. These results highlight
that comprehensive vision-language pretraining is essential for achieving superior VLA performance.
How should we formulate VLAs?Through extensive study and experiments, continuous actions consistently outperform
auto-regressive discrete actions, while incorporating historical context is crucial for enhancing performance and addressing partial
observability. For the model architecture, Vision-Language Models (VLMs) integrated directly with policy heads demonstrate
superior performance compared to other formulations due to the consistent usage, i.e., vision-language tokens should be processed
in their original pretraining format, with a policy head added to integrate past visual and proprioceptive observations for effective
decision-making. Finally, larger VLMs further enhance efficiency, requiring fewer data to achieve higher performance.
When should we leverage cross-embodiment datasets?While it is widely believed that pre-training or post-training with
cross-embodiment data improves performance, this belief has not been rigorously validated. Our findings reveal that pre-training
with cross-embodiment data does not consistently yield significant improvements in final performance. However, post-training
a cross-embodiment pre-trained model on the target dataset can lead to notable performance gains. Additionally, leveraging
manipulation data from the same robots or tasks provides a clear boost in performance.
II. MAINRESULTS ANDFINDINGS
The primary objective of this work is to establish VLAs as robust generalist robotic policies by thoroughly analyzing
contemporary VLA architectures and identifying the key factors driving their performance.
As shown in Extended Table. 1, we aim to answer the four questions (why/which/how/when) described in the former section.
The 4 questions are further divided into 6 executable research problems, and successively experiments are designed to answer
each.
A. Benchmarks and Evaluation Metrics
To comprehensively evaluate the performance of VLAs, in this work, we benchmark all models on a diverse set of benchmarks
and robotic manipulation tasks in both simulation and the real world. Specifically, as shown in Fig. 3a, we choose two
well-known and widely-used simulation benchmarks (CALVIN[ 30] andSimplerEnv[ 39]) as our testbed. Moreover, we deploy
and test our system on a real-world robot manipulation benchmark, including more than 100 tasks, to evaluate RoboVLMs.
CALVIN[ 30] is a simulation benchmark for multitask table-top manipulation. The dataset contains four splits A, B, C, and
D according to different scene settings and provides 34 basic tasks with 24K human teleoperated demonstrations annotated
with language instructions in total. Evaluation metrics include the success rates of finishing 1∼5 consecutive tasks, as well as
the average number of achieved tasks successfully executed (shortened asAvg. Len.).
SimplerEnv[ 23] is designed as a suite of real-to-sim environments and enables the evaluation of robot policies in simulation.
It creates a comparable arena for benchmarking the success rate of robot policies in private real-world settings such as Google
Robot [6, 7] and Bridge V2 [ 43]. Evaluation metrics for SimplerEnv are the success rate of each task, simply counted by the
number of successfully finished tasks over all valid trials.
Real Robot Benchmark[ 8] consists of over 70K teleoperated human trajectories used to fine-tune robot policies, covering
105 manipulation tasks. To evaluate the performance of models on this benchmark, we adopt the approach outlined in [ 21],
testing each model on oneSimplesetting and four challengingUnseensettings. Examples of these settings are shown in Fig.
3c. In total, we evaluate each VLA across 20 tasks, with 5 settings per task and 3 rollouts per setting, reporting the average
success rate for each setting. A detailed description of the benchmarks is provided in Appendix.5
(a) Two simulated and one real-world benchmarks. We show environment setups and example tasks involved.
Slide Window Stack Block
Open Drawer Open Light
CALVIN SimplerEnv
Put Spoon on TowelPut Eggplant in Basket
Stack Block Put Carrot on Plate
Real-World
Open the Oven
Press Toaster
Pickup Knife
Pickup Cucumber
(b) The demonstration of our real robot platform. The platform is equipped with a side camera and a wrist camera. 
(c) The illustration of the experimental settings in real-world experiments. We evaluate the models in 20 tasks 
with five settings for each task, involving Unseen Disctractor, Unseen Target Object and Unseen Background, 
Novel Skill Description
Side Camera
Wrist Camera
Work SpaceKinova Gen 3
Various Skills & Objects
 Real-World Experimental Setups
Basic
 Novel Skill DescriptionUnseen Distractor Unseen Target ObjectUnseen Background
Press the toaster Open/Close 
the oven
Pick up the 
mandarin
Pour the  
black powder
Place the  
cucumber
Pick up 
the knife
Pick up 
the knife
Pick up the 
eggplant
Pick up the 
red mug
Take 
the knife
Grab the 
eggplant
Lift the 
red mug
Pick up the  
Yellow Bottle
Pick up the 
towel
Pick up the  
Yellow Bottle
Fig. 3: Illustration of the involved simulations and real-world benchmarks.
B. Why do we prefer VLAs?
This section investigates one of the key questions:Why do we want VLAs?To answer this question, we need to answer the
following prerequisite sub-question first:
Question 1.1:Are VLAs a proper choice for building generalist robot policies?
Concretely, we demonstrate the best-performing VLA resulting from our study, which sets a new state-of-the-art result on
bothCALVINandSimplerEnvbenchmarks, outperforming all other robot policies with a clear margin. All results are shown in
Extended Table. 2 and Fig. 4a. From these tables, we can see that our strongest RoboVLM exceeds the existing state-of-the-art
generalist policies by a large margin and establishes a strong baseline for robot manipulation tasks both in simulation and
real-world experiments. Concretely, we can easily observe the following facts:
• OnCALVINbenchmark, our best model achieves the highest performance in all metrics and demonstrates superior
generalization ability when transferring from ABC to D (a novel scene unseen in the training splits) with an absolute
improvement of 12.6% for the execution of a single task and a total improvement of 30.3% for 5 consecutive tasks. On6
(a) Evaluation results on the SimplerEnv simulation 
benchmarks, including the WidowX+Bridge and Google Robot 
environments. Performance of baseline methods are referred 
from Li et al. [23]. The KosMos P.H. built by RoboVLMs is 
the best VLA structure investigated, which is trained over fixed 
training steps. Detailed numerical results can be further 
referred to Extended Table. 3.
(b) Ablation study of VLAs for vision-language pre-training 
on different settings of the CALVIN benchmark. “P.H.” 
denotes policy head. “No VL” suggests models without VL 
pre-training. “Inter” refers to the interleaved formulation. 
“5x” represents training with 5x re-generated training data. 
Full results on different training settings and data scales are 
shown in Appendix.
(c) Performance on CALVIN benchmark, all models are trained on split ABC/ABCD, and evaluated on split 
D (the upper figure is trained on ABC, and the lower figure ABCD). We report the success rates of five 
consecutive tasks (left axis) and the averaged task length (right axis), using the model checkpoint at 5 epoch.th
(d) Real-robot performance of our best VLA (KosMos P.H.) built by RoboVLMs against baseline methods 
over different settings. RoboVLM outperforms the existing VLAs over all settings, especially for metrics in 
unseen scenarios, demonstrating the effectiveness and robustness of our model.
$%&' [$%&' $%&




$YJ/HQ














.RV0RV,QWHU
.RV0RV,QWHU1R9/
.RV0RV3+
.RV0RV3+1R9/
)ODPLQJR3+%
)ODPLQJR3+%1R9/
6LPSOH
1RYHO6NLOO'HVFULSWLRQ 8QVHHQ'LVWUDFWRU 8QVHHQ%DFNJURXQG 8QVHHQ2EMHFW 8QVHHQ$YHUDJH






6XFFHVV5DWH


















.RV0RV3+5RER9/0V
2SHQ9/$
2FWR
:LGRZ;%ULGJH *RRJOH5RERW






$YHUDJH6XFFHVV5DWH




 




57;
2FWR%DVH
2FWR6PDOO
2SHQ9/$E
57;
5RER9/0V
7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN/HQJWK






&RQVHFXWLYH7DVNV6XFFHVV5DWHV
)ODPLQJR3+%
)ODPLQJR3+%
)ODPLQJR3+%
.RV0RV,QWHU
.RV0RV3+





$YJ/HQ





7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN 7DVN/HQJWK






&RQVHFXWLYH7DVNV6XFFHVV5DWHV
)ODPLQJR3+%
)ODPLQJR3+%
.RV0RV,QWHU
.RV0RV3+





$YJ/HQ




Fig. 4: The experimental results for RoboVLMs in Simulations and real world.7
average, under zero-shot settings, our model can finish 4.25 tasks out of 5 tasks for each single rollout, outperforming the
previous SOTA model (GR-1) by 1.19 tasks.
• OnSimplerEnv, our model achieves the highest average performance on bothWidowX + BridgeandGoogle Robot
environments, demonstrating the general effectiveness and robustness against different settings and diverse manipulation
tasks.
We also investigated the impact of vision-language pre-training on the generalization and data efficiency (Fig. 4b and Extended
Table. 4). For the generalization in CALVIN, we adopt the official setting: training models on the split of ABC and validating
performance on D. To evaluate data efficiency, we conduct experiments on model scales ranging from 3B to 9B and various
data scales: 10% training data (0.1x ABCD), the standard setting (ABCD), and 500% training data (5x ABCD). The additional
data originates from the officially released unlabeled datasets, following the setups as introduced in Wu et al. [45]. The detailed
results on different data scales are shown in Appendix.
We can see that vision-language pre-training is essential for both generalization and data efficiency. This observation is
intuitive, as an aligned vision-language representation provides a robust foundation for visual understanding, enabling the policy
to focus on learning manipulation skills. Therefore, we can conclude that
Finding 1.1:VLA is a promising path to generalist robot policies.
However, although VLAs perform well in simulation, it is still an open problem whether VLAs are suitable for real-robot
applications due to the sim-to-real gap [52]. We propose the second open question:
Question 1.2:How does the best VLA built with RoboVLMs perform in real-world scenarios?
As discussed above, we deploy the best-performing RoboVLM model, that is, the one based on the decoder-only KosMos in
real-world scenarios to validate its effectiveness. As shown in Fig. 3c, our experiment involves 20 tasks with multiple skills,
including Open, Close, Press Button , Pick & Place , etc. For each task, we evaluate five settings, with the basic
setting, novel skill description, unseen distractors, unseen target object, and unseen background.
Our robot system for real experiments is built on a 7-DoF Kinova Gen3 robot arm paired with a Robotiq 2F-85 gripper.
Please refer to Sec. III for more details of the real robot. For input, we take the RGB images for the two cameras equipped on
the robot head and wrist separately. The head camera provides an overview of the workspace while the gripper camera offers a
close observation of the interaction area between the end effector and the environment.
We fine-tune Octo-Base, OpenVLA, and KosMos P.H. built by RoboVLMs on the real robot benchmark and compare their
performance. The result is shown in Fig. 4d. We observe that the best VLA (KosMos P.H.) built by RoboVLMs achieves the
best performance in all evaluation setups, especially onSimpleandUnseen Background, demonstrating their effectiveness and
generalization ability, which is consistent with the results in SimplerEnv and CALVIN simulation.
The qualitative results are shown in Appendix, including success rollouts in various settings and some representative failure
cases. KosMos P.H. not only outperforms baseline models in basic setting tasks like Open Drawer , Pickup Eggplant
and Press the Toaster Switch , but also achieves better performance over unseen objects, distractors, and backgrounds.
Furthermore, as shown in Extended Fig. 1, KosMos P.H. emerges with self-correction ability, it can realize the incorrect
positions of the end effector and correct its future trajectory to complete the task successfully. Note that this ability does not
appear in the other tested baselines, and this kind of data is not contained in the training dataset.
Finding 1.2:The best setup VLA built by RoboVLMs appears to have strong effectiveness and robustness in real
scenarios.
In the following, we will explain our empirical studies and corresponding findings in detail, including the settings, results,
and takeaways in building VLAs from pre-trained VLMs.
C. Which kind of VLM backbones are suitable for VLAs?
When building a VLM-based VLA, the first question is which VLM backbone is the most appropriate one for our VLA:
Question 2:Which type of VLMs is most suitable for constructing VLAs?
To thoroughly investigate this question, it would be ideal to conduct experiments in highly controlled settings. However,
training VLMs on large-scale vision-language datasets is extremely resource-intensive. Therefore, we base our VLAs on a
diverse set of off-the-shelf, pre-trained, large-scale vision-language backbones with varying architectures, training data scales,
model sizes, and latent embeddings. These include Flamingo model family [ 1] (Encoder-Decoder), and a series of decoder-only
VLMs, including LLaV A [26], Qwen-VL [ 2], MoonDream [ 42], UForm [ 40], Paligemma [ 3], and KosMos [ 34]. Noticeably, in
this section, for fair comparisons, all the models are trained with static images instead of both static and hand cameras.8
TABLE I: The ablation study onCALVINbenchmark over the effect of action space, history integration, and history organizing
format. All variants are trained on split ABCD and tested on split D. “Disc." is short for discrete and “Cont." represents
continuous action space. Note that for VLAs with LLaV A backbone, we utilize a perceiver resampler to downsample its vision
tokens to 64 for fair comparison. Results are reported with models trained maximally within 5 epochs on the ABCD training
splits, all structures predict an action chunk with size 10 and only execute the first step action for inference.
Backbone Structure Action
Space
Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
LLaV A
One-Step Disc. 0.809 0.484 0.278 0.175 0.103 1.85
One-Step Cont. 0.793 0.592 0.420 0.329 0.235 2.37
Interleaved Cont. 0.8920.645 0.436 0.282 0.181 2.44
Policy-Head Cont. 0.8730.678 0.506 0.376 0.275 2.71
Flamingo
One-Step Disc. 0.681 0.318 0.133 0.062 0.029 1.22
One-Step Cont. 0.681 0.354 0.158 0.076 0.035 1.30
Policy-Head Cont. 0.964 0.896 0.824 0.740 0.662 4.09
KosMos
One-Step Disc. 0.424 0.097 0.023 0.005 0.002 0.55
One-Step Cont. 0.935 0.868 0.814 0.768 0.702 4.09
Interleaved Cont. 0.9870.915 0.824 0.737 0.660 4.12
Policy-Head Cont. 0.9670.930 0.899 0.865 0.826 4.49
PaliGemma
One-Step Disc. 0.316 0.096 0.021 0.005 0.001 0.44
One-Step Cont. 0.933 0.863 0.808 0.751 0.688 4.04
Interleaved Cont. 0.949 0.896 0.851 0.803 0.754 4.25
Policy-Head Cont. 0.984 0.933 0.888 0.835 0.779 4.42
The results, presented in Extended Table. 5, reveals the following observation: KosMos and Paligemma demonstrate the
distinctively better performance. From Extended Table. 5, we can see that these two backbones are much better than others
with a significantly clear margin. Their superior performance benefits from sufficient vision-language pre-trained on large
vision-language datasets. This outcome is intuitive, as extensive pretraining facilitates stronger alignment between visual and
linguistic features, an alignment critical for language-conditioned manipulation tasks.
Finding 2:VLAs benefit from sufficient vision-language pre-training on larger vision-language datasets of VLMs
backbone.
D. How should VLAs be formulated to best leverage VLMs?
In this section, our study addresses questions regarding VLA formulations, including different design choices of VLA
structures and various backbones. To answer these questions, we conduct a series of controlled experimental studies to evaluate
various VLA formulations on the CALVIN benchmark for rapid evaluation.
Question 3.1:How to select the best-performing VLA structure?
More specifically, how should we model observations, states, and actions in robot manipulation tasks within the context of
a VLA? To explore this question, we implement several variants, leveraging various open-source VLM backbones such as
OpenFlamingo [ 33], LLaV A [26], and KosMos [ 34]. These variants incorporate different historical information modeling
strategies, and action spaces, as discussed and categorized in Sec.I.
The performance of various VLA structures in CALVIN is summarized in Table. I. From these results, we draw the following
key observations:
• Continuous action matters:By comparing two types of action spaces,continuousanddiscrete, as shown in Table. I, we
observe that under the single-frame formulation, continuous action spaces consistently outperform discrete ones, particularly
as task horizons increase. This finding is intuitive: continuous actions can represent high-precision floating-point values,
whereas discrete actions are limited to indexing action intervals. For long-horizon tasks, the accumulation of compounding
errors significantly degrades the performance of discrete actions.
• History observation matters:As shown in Table. I, under the same VLM structure (either Encoder-Decoder or Decoder-
only), models incorporating history observations as input consistently outperform one-step models, achieving substantially
higher success rates across all tasks. This improvement holds regardless of the history fusion strategy used. Furthermore,
increasing the length of an observable history can enhance performance, albeit at the cost of higher computational overhead.
• Policy head improves history fusion:Among the formulations utilizing history, the interleaved history formulation
performs worse than merging history via an additional policy head. We hypothesize that the policy head preserves the
VLM’s original vision-language fusion capabilities while effectively integrating historical information. Moreover, the9
interleaved formulation incurs significantly higher memory and FLOP costs during both training and inference. This
suggests that incorporating history with an additional policy head is a more effective and efficient approach for VLAs.
Finding 3.1:The VLA achieves its best performance when using multi-step historical observations as inputs and
continuous actions as outputs. For integrating history with continuous action space, the policy head structure performs
better.
However, beyond the performance itself, one of the most important challenges for modern VLAs is achieving generalization
to novel objects and environmental settings, which is critical for practical deployment across various robots and scenarios.
Conversely, when generalization is insufficient, fine-tuning the policy with a few new demonstrations becomes ideal. Thus,
VLAs should inherit the generalization capabilities of VLMs in open-world settings while maintaining high data efficiency
when additional in-domain training samples are available.
Therefore, we further investigate the generalization and data efficiency for different VLAs formulations.
Question 3.2:How do different formulations affect the generalization and data efficiency for VLAs?
To address the question, we empirically study and evaluate the generalization and data efficiency of various VLA formulations,
aiming to provide practical insights for training high-performing VLAs. Specifically, we assess the generalization and data
efficiency of different VLAs built with RoboVLMs by training models with different architectures and formulations on varying
data scales using the CALVIN datasets. As discussed earlier, we focus on comparing the interleaved and policy head formulations
using the OpenFlamingo and KosMos backbones, which have shown strong potential among all configurations. Note that the
interleaved formulation can only be paired with a decoder-only structure. The results presented in Fig. 4c and Extended Table.
4, lead to the following observations:
• For generalization performance(Fig. 4c), our best model, based on the KosMos backbone and leveraging a policy head
for history fusion, exhibits only a slight performance drop in zero-shot settings. In contrast, other formulations experience
significant performance declines. This finding highlights that the model architecture significantly impacts generalization.
This conclusion is further supported by results in Fig. 4a, where tasks in the evaluation set are paired with novel instructions,
and Fig. 4d, where our best model outperforms others by a large margin across all unseen tasks.
• For data efficiency,we observe trends similar to those for generalization. Our best model consistently achieves the highest
performance when training data is scaled down, with a notably slower performance decline compared to other formulations.
Additionally, comparisons of encoder-decoder VLAs at different scales reveal that larger models tend to be more data
efficient.
Finding 3.2:Leveraging policy head for history fusion is the best in terms of generalization and data efficiency.
Yet, the historical formulation is demonstrated to have the best performance, most recent learning-based techniques favor
the one-step-continuous formulation for its computational efficiency, with an acceptable performance drop on short-horizon
tasks. This offers a practical trade-off, particularly for real-robot deployment [ 4, 20]. To further investigate their impacts
on the performance of resulting policies, we based them on the state-of-the-art one-step-continuous formulation with the
best-performing PaliGemma backbone, to align with their original backbone setting and ensure fair comparison.
Question 3.3:How do training objectives and inference-time aggregation strategies impact the performance?
Learning-based policies vary in training objectives and inference, leading to different execution behaviors. For example, in
behavior cloning, the most prevailing way is to use MSE or BCE losses for action generation, while diffusion policies learn
denoising trajectories through generative modeling. We investigate different training objectives along with the widely-exploited
inference-time aggregation strategies for a comprehensive understanding.
In detail, we compare the following two objectives, which are the most prevailing ones in current days:
• Flow Matching [ 4, 24]is a diffusion-based objective. It regards the denoising process as a continuous flow and samples
timestep t∈[0,1] to enforce the model to predict the velocity at t. For inference, the model randomly samples an
action-chunk shaped gaussion noise, and predicts the denoising velocity based on the current action chunk and time step,
the denoised velocity is added to the action chunk vector until the maximum denoising step is reached.
• MSE+BCE [22, 45]. It formulates the action as an n+ 1 -dimensional vector, with n continuous actions representing arms
or end-effector poses, plus a separate gripper action. It utilizes Mean Square Error (MSE) to learn the continuous actions
and Binary Cross Entropy (BCE) to learn the state of the gripper.
Besides, we also compare different inference-time action aggregation strategies includingChunk,First, andEnsemble:
•Chunk: A chunk will be fully executed before the next inference.
•First: Only the first action in the chunk will be executed, and then run the next inference.10
TABLE II: The performance of VLAs with different training objectives and action execution paradigms, and whether to
introduce the MoE structure. We utilize PaliGemma, which aligns with the settings of π series, as the VLM backbone and
implement Fully Connecting (FC) with MSE and Flow Matching (FM) loss. Note that the FC with Flow Matching loss and
MoE structure is identity with π0, and for fair comparison, we do not consider state as input. For executing paradigms, we
verify three different paradigms:Chunkrepresents that the VLAs execute the entire chunk.Firstrefers to VLAs execute the
first action in the chunk.Ensemblerefers to ensemble the first action with the corresponding actions in history chunks.
(a) Performance with different training objectives and execution paradigms
Training
Objective
Training
Split
Executing
Paradigm
Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
Flow Matching
ABC
Chunk 0.910 0.812 0.730 0.652 0.573 3.68
Flow Matching First 0.793 0.586 0.442 0.351 0.273 2.45
Flow Matching Ensemble 0.838 0.710 0.614 0.545 0.437 3.14
MSE+BCE Chunk 0.901 0.802 0.703 0.620 0.544 3.57
MSE+BCE First 0.822 0.564 0.371 0.265 0.169 2.19
MSE+BCE Ensemble 0.880 0.730 0.606 0.508 0.414 3.14
Flow Matching
ABCD
Chunk 0.937 0.872 0.811 0.764 0.705 4.09
Flow Matching First 0.898 0.799 0.701 0.618 0.544 3.56
Flow Matching Ensemble 0.945 0.882 0.818 0.770 0.708 4.12
MSE+BCE Chunk 0.933 0.863 0.808 0.751 0.688 4.04
MSE+BCE First 0.925 0.727 0.579 0.473 0.378 3.06
MSE+BCE Ensemble 0.925 0.849 0.784 0.721 0.664 3.94
(b) Effectiveness of Mix-of-Expert structure
Training
Objective
Using
MoE
Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
MSE+BCE ✓(ABC) 0.932 0.824 0.732 0.644 0.556 3.69
MSE+BCE ✗(ABC) 0.901 0.802 0.703 0.620 0.544 3.57
Flow Matching ✓(ABC) 0.940 0.855 0.768 0.679 0.597 3.84
Flow Matching ✗(ABC) 0.910 0.812 0.730 0.652 0.573 3.68
MSE+BCE ✓(ABCD) 0.945 0.823 0.678 0.561 0.457 3.46
MSE+BCE ✗(ABCD) 0.933 0.863 0.808 0.751 0.688 4.04
Flow Matching ✓(ABCD) 0.911 0.828 0.759 0.707 0.639 3.84
Flow Matching ✗(ABCD) 0.937 0.872 0.811 0.764 0.705 4.10
• Ensemble: An ensemble strategy [ 51] is used to aggregate the predictions at the same time step from different action
chunks.
From Table. IIa we could observe that:
• Diffusion policies do not significantly improve performance compared to MSE+BCE.While Flow Matching slightly
outperforms MSE+BCE in all experiments, the performance gap is not significant. This suggests that the added inference-
time complexity of diffusion models offers limited benefit for short-horizon tasks where deterministic objectives already
perform well.
• One-Step-Continuous policies benefit most from executing full action chunks.Across both Flow Matching and
MSE+BCE, the Chunk paradigm consistently yields the best performance in novel scenarios (Training Split ABC). This
is likely because the models learn to generate trajectories from a multimodal distribution, and executing only the first
action or aggregating across chunks (as in Ensemble) can introduce mode collapse or distort the intended trajectory. Chunk
execution preserves temporal coherence within the sampled sequence. While in seen scenarios (Training Split ABCD),
executing action chunks does not achieve significant performance improvement compared with ensembling. This indicates
that in seen scenarios, the diversity of trajectories might be decreased so that executing action chunks is comparable with
ensembling. However, chunking execution could decrease the inference times of VLAs and achieve a real-time deployment
(over 30HZ), so that for the rest of the experiments, we utilize chunking execution for one-step-continuous policies.
• Executing only the first action underperforms across both objectives.The First paradigm results in significantly lower
performance regardless of training objective, especially as the sequential task progresses. This suggests that relying solely
on the first action from a sampled or predicted sequence lacks the temporal context and consistency, which are particularly
necessary for long-horizon task success.11
Finding 3.3:For One-Step-Continuous formulation, Diffusion loss and MSE loss could achieve a similar
performance. For inference-time aggregation strategy, it is important to keep execution consistency, particularly for
long-horizon tasks and multimodal actions.
Inspired by the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) in deep learning [ 37], which dynamically routes inputs through specialized
feed-forward networks, π0 [4] proposes augmenting each VLM layer with a dedicated action expert. This design, used in the
π0 [4] and π0.5 [15]series, preserves vision-language reasoning by routing vision and language tokens through the original
VLM modules, while action tokens are handled by the expert and fused via self-attention. Given its demonstrated effectiveness,
we also investigate the impact of this structure under our policy formulation.
Question 3.4:Does Mix-of-Expert structure benefit VLA learning?
To assess the effectiveness of the MoE design, we adopt the same setup as the π-series as shown in Extended Fig. 2b, where
the vision-language (VL) tokens are processed by the standard VLM feedforward network (FFN), and the action tokens are
routed through a separate action expert FFN. The two sets of tokens interact via self-attention, maintaining joint reasoning
while allowing specialization. We evaluate this structure under two representative training objectives: MSE+BCE and Flow
Matching, which follow both our default settings in this paper and the original setting inπ-series, respectively.
From Table. IIb, we observe that
• MoE structure consistently improves generalization in the visually zero-shot setting (Training Split ABC). For both
MSE+BCE and Flow Matching training objectives, using MoE yields higher success rates across all five consecutive
tasks. This suggests that MoE enhances the model’s ability to generalize to unseen scenarios. This demonstrates that the
mixture-of-experts (MoE) structure is beneficial in preserving the pretrained vision-language (VL) capabilities, as the
action prediction does not impose strong supervision on the visual tokens.
• For seen scenarios (Training Split ABCD), introducing the MoE structure does not provide additional benefits. Both
training objectives achieve higher success rates without MoE, suggesting that for scenes similar or identical to the training
data, the original VLM backbone is sufficient. This may originate from that the MoE structure tends to preserve the general
pretrained vision-language (VL) representations, whereas directly fine-tuning the VLA backbone without MoE allows the
model to specialize instead of generalize, and fit more effectively to the seen tasks, leading to better performance under
familiar settings.
Finding 3.4:Introducing the Mix-of-Expert structure can improve the generalization of VLAs, while it can not boost
the performance in seen scenarios.
E. When should we leverage the public diverse robot data for optimal training?
In recent work, it has been a dominant trend to leverage large-scale cross-embodiment robot manipulation datasets to improve
the performance of VLAs [4, 7, 20, 33]. However, it is still not fully clear if it helps and an important question remains:
Question 4:How do large-scale cross-embodiment datasets contribute to VLAs?
To address this, we break the question into two sub-questions:
1) What types of data from large-scale cross-embodiment datasets are the most beneficial for building VLAs?
2) When and how should these data be utilized effectively?
In this section, we conduct a series of experiments to investigate different strategies for using external large-scale cross-
embodiment datasets. Specifically, we explore three settings as shown in Extended Fig. 3:
• Co-train: Training the model with in-domain manipulation data and cross-embodiment datasets. Previous work like RT-2 [ 7],
OpenVLA [20], and OCTO [38] only consider this one-stage training.
• Post-train: First, Co-training the VLMs on in-domain and cross-embodiment datasets as above; then, fine-tuning with
in-domain manipulation tasks. This has been adopted byπ 0 [4].
• Finetune: Without involving cross-embodiment datasets, fine-tuning the model with only in-domain manipulation tasks. For
RT1 dataset that includes the exact target tasks, we further split the RT1 dataset into target tasks and extra in-domain data.
Our experiments in this section use the best-performing KosMos backbone with a policy head for history fusion as the base
model. We use Open X-Embodiment (OXE) [ 33] as the cross-embodiment dataset, which comprises a diverse range of robot
manipulation data collected worldwide and is the most widely used one in recent works [4, 7, 20, 38].
D.1 In Domain Evaluation
We first test on the general in-domain tasks (i.e., tasks inside OXE). For comparison, we also evaluate a baseline setting,
Finetune, where the VLA is trained exclusively on in-domain data. Additionally, forGoogle Robot, we include bothRT-Partial12
FinetuneandRTFinetune, whereRT-PartialFinetuneinvolves only the trajectories with the same task type as the evaluating
tasks, andRTFinetuneinvolves co-finetuning the policy with additional data from the same robot across different tasks. For
Bridge, we only evaluateBridgeFinetune, which finetunes the policy with the entireBridge-V2dataset, since the training
dataset does not contain trajectories with the same instructions as the evaluated tasks.
The comparison of the two stages of using cross-embodiment data is shown in Extended Fig. 4, showing the evaluation
results forSimplerEnv-Google RobotandSimplerEnv-Bridge, from which the following observations can be drawn:
• Co-trainingon cross-embodiment data without post-training does not help significantly.ComparingOXECo-train
andRT-PartialFinetunereveals that for bothGoogle RobotandBridge, co-training with cross-embodiment data does not
lead to substantial performance improvements. In particular, forGoogle Robot, training with additional in-domain data (RT
Finetune) from different tasks achieves higher success rates (compared withRT-PartialFinetune). This indicates that
in-domain data, even if task-agnostic, is more effective for improving model performance than cross-embodiment data.
• Post-trainingshows potential benefits over high-frequency tasks in the first co-training stage.The average performance
of the post-trained model exceeds that of the model fine-tuned exclusively on in-domain data onBridge(50% for post-trained
and 44% for fine-tuned). While forGoogle Robot, the post-trained model only outperforms the fine-tuned model over
pick coke can tasks, and drops its performance on all other tasks. We consider the main reason is that the proportion
of pick-and-placetasks in the OpenX-Embodiment dataset is very large, so that the post-trained model gains higher
performance over pick-and-place tasks, while it loses performance over tasks involving other skills like move near
and open/close drawer as a trade-off. In other words, cross-embodiment co-training enables VLAs to learn skills
for high-frequency tasks from other types of embodiments and transfer the acquired knowledge to the target embodiment
during the post-training phase. This helps VLAs further improve the overall success rate of these tasks, though at the cost
of sacrificing low-frequency tasks and skills in the co-training stage.
• In-domain data plays a critical role in achieving strong task performance.Even task-agnostic in-domain data from
the same embodiment (e.g., RT Finetune) proves more effective than large-scale cross-embodiment data for fine-tuning
VLAs, as shown by the experiments onGoogle Robotdataset, especially for fitting specific tasks. While cross-embodiment
pre-training can provide useful initialization in some cases, leveraging in-domain data remains essential for robust and
consistent policy performance.
D.2 Out-of-Distribution Evaluation
To evaluate the impact of cross-embodiment datasets more comprehensively, we further perform experiments onCALVIN,
whose data is not part of OXE. We mainly focus on whether cross-embodiment datasets benefitfew-shot learning(we randomly
sample 10 trajectories for each task from data split ABCD for training and test on D) on out-of-distribution tasks (w.r.t. to
OXE). To keep settings consistent, we only take the image from the static on-head camera as input. The results are illustrated
in Extended Fig. 5, and we conclude that:
• Cross-embodimentpre-trainingimprovesfew-shot learningperformance.In the few-shot setting for CALVIN, with a
single-view on-head camera, pre-training significantly improves the performance by 17.2% in terms of single-task execution
and 0.25 more executed tasks in each rollout. It can be concluded that pre-training on large-scale cross-embodiment
datasets benefits the learning of more effective representations for robot manipulation, which can quickly adapt to novel
manipulation tasks with unseen objects and environmental settings.
Finding 4:Extra in-domain data, even from different tasks, shows beneficial, and an extra large-scale cross-embodiment
co-training before the post-training stage further improves high-frequency tasks as well as few-shot performance.
III. METHOD ANDMATERIAL
We consider the problem of controlling a robot to accomplish a set of tasks, based on language instructions l, and historical
observations ot−H+1:t at every time step t with the maximum historical length H. In this paper, we mainly consider a table-top
robot arm, therefore the observations ot are sensor inputs and images, e.g., ot = (s t, It), from either a third-view camera,
a gripper camera, or both. We build a controlling policy π(a|ot−H+1:t , l), where the action a is modeled as a 7-dim vector,
including the 6-DoF pose of the gripper, along with its open/close status. In this section, we will first introduce the formulation
of vision-language models (Section III-A), based on which we build our VLA formulations.
A. Vision Language Model
Vision-language models (VLMs), also referred to as multi-modal large language models, integrate vision into their input
modality, enabling them to process and reason about both visual and textual information. Typically, VLMs are prompted with
images and/or text to generate text [ 1, 2, 3, 26, 40, 42], facilitating applications such as image captioning, visual question
answering, and goal-directed planning. This process can be formally described as:
ˆl=VLM(I, l prompt).(1)13
Here, I and lprompt denote the image and text prompts, respectively, while ˆl represents the text output generated by the VLM.
For instance, in a visual question-answering task, lprompt corresponds to the question, and ltarget corresponds to the generated
answer. Training a VLM typically involves minimizing a cross-entropy loss to predict discrete language tokens, which can be
expressed as:
ℓVLM =CrossEntropy( ˆl, ltarget),(2)
where ltarget is the ground truth text. By pre-training on millions or even billions of paired vision-language data, VLMs acquire
robust representations of both visual and textual modalities. To effectively handle these two distinct modalities, VLMs typically
employ a vision processor and a language decoder, connected through various vision-language feature fusion mechanisms.
Among the available options, vision transformer (ViTs) [ 11] and perceiver resampler [ 16] are widely adopted choices for the
vision processor [ 22, 28, 38, 45]. The ViT module reshapes each input image I into patches and encodes them as visual tokens
[OBS]:
[OBS]= (x v
1,· · ·, x v
N ) =ViT(I),(3)
where N represents the token number, xv
i represents the ith token, which, in ViT, is an embedding vector encoding a patch of
the input image.
Existing VLMs can be broadly categorized into two structural paradigms: encoder-decoder and decoder-only architectures.
These two structures differ mainly in their multi-modal fusion strategies.
Encoder-decoder. Encoder-decoder architectures are composed of two main components: an encoder that is typically responsible
for extracting features from inputs using input embedding modules as discussed above, and a decoder that generates the
output (e.g., text or multi-modal predictions) auto-regressive. Feature fusion between the encoder and decoder is usually
achieved by cross-attention layers in the decoder. This structure excels in tasks requiring a detailed understanding of the input
modalities, such as image captioning and visual reasoning, due to its ability to explicitly encode multi-modal information prior
to generation [31, 46]. Representative models include Flamingo [1] and OFA [44].
Decoder-only. Decoder-only architectures, in contrast, rely on a unified transformer framework where both the input modalities
(vision and text) and the output sequences are processed in the same autoregressive decoder. In these models, visual features
are first embedded into token-like representations (via vision processors), which are then concatenated with textual tokens
and passed through the decoder. Multi-modal feature fusion occurs naturally through the self-attention mechanism, allowing
the decoder to model dependencies between visual and textual inputs during token generation. Decoder-only architectures are
more flexible and scalable, making them well-suited for tasks like instruction following, multi-modal question answering, and
open-ended generation. Examples of decoder-only models include GPT-4V [47] and LLaV A [26].
B. Vision-Language-Action Models
Vision-language-action models (VLAs) are predominantly applied to robotic tasks, where they serve as a generalist robot
policy π capable of handling complicated tasks. In formal, VLAs predict action sequences based on previous observations at
the current time stept:
at:t+L−1 =VLA(o t−H+1:t , lprompt),(4)
where at:t+L−1 are a sequence of predicted 7-dim actions, L is the action sequence length and H is the history observation
length. Different from VLMs, the observations of VLAs ot−H+1:t usually contain proprioceptive states st−H+1:t like the joint
angles and end-effector positions besides the visual inputs It−H+1:t. As discussed in Section III-B, we abstract and categorize
VLAs into four representative structures based on 1) historical information modeling and 2) action space. Before we describe
these distinct models in form, we first introduce the general pre-process and prediction principles when dealing with robot
actions in different action spaces.
1) Action Pre-process
Action Normalization.For both continuous and discrete action spaces, we normalize each dimension of the 7-DoF action.
Following Kim et al. [20], we count the 1 st and 99 th quantile of the actions in the training data and use the quantiles to clamp
each dimension of the action [7]:
ai′
= min(a i
99th ,max(a i
1st , ai)),(5)
where ai′
is the clamped value of the i-th dimension of action a. For the next step, we normalize each dimension of the
clamped actiona
′
with the 1 st and 99 th quantile of the actions:
˜ai = 2×(a i′
−a i
1st )/(ai
99th −a i
1st )−1.(6)
˜a= [˜a1,˜a2,· · ·,˜a 7] is the normalized action, each dimension is in the range of [−1,1] , the last dimension representing the
open/close status of the gripper ∈ {−1,1} . During inference time, we will reversely map the predicted actions into unnormalized
actions.
Action Discretization.For discrete action representation, we need to further discretize the normalized action ˜a. Following
Brohan et al. [7], Kim et al. [20], we map continuous robot actions to discrete tokens used by the VLM’s tokenizer. Specifically,14
we discretize each robot action dimension into one of 256 bins separately. For each dimension, we set the width of the bin to
uniformly divide the interval between the quantile of 1 st and 99 th of actions in the training data.
Using this discretization, we transform ˜ato a with 7 discrete integers ∈[0. . .255] . To avoid damaging the original special
token positions in the language tokenizer, we add an offset (default set to 10) and replace the last offset ∼ 256+offset tokens
with a discretized index.
2) Action PredictionContinuous Actions.We optimize the mean square error (MSE) and binary cross entropy (BCE) for the
predicted action sequencea t:t+L−1 with the ground truth action sequence˜a t:t+L−1:
lVLA =
t+L−1X
i=t
MSE(ˆai,pose,˜ai,pose) +λ∗BCE(a i,gripper ,˜ai,gripper ),(7)
where the MSE loss is computed for the first six dimensions, and the BCE loss is for the last gripper dimension between the
predicted actionˆat:t+L−1 and the ground truth˜a t:t+L−1,λis the balancing weight.
Discrete Actions.Discrete-action models predict action tokens ACTi for each action dimension i. These tokens are the index
of discretized bins from continuous action by dimension, which can be easily de-tokenized to recover the action vector. The
optimization object has a similar cross-entropy (CE) format as text generation widely used in VLM training:
lVLA =
t+L−1X
i=t
7X
j=1
CE([ACT]j
i ,˜aj
i ),(8)
where [ACT]j
i represents the index of bins of the jth dimension of the predicted action token [ACT] at time i, and aj
i is the
corresponding ground truth. During inference time, after getting the predicted action token ACTi, we re-project the discrete
tokens to the center of the corresponding bins into a continuous form for achieving tasks.
C. VLA Structures
As shown in Extended Fig. 2a, there are mainly four kinds of VLA structures categorized by action space and history
aggregating method, namely one-step-continuous-action models, one-step-discrete-action models, interleaved-continuous-action
models, and policy-head-continuous-action models. Note that our proposed framework RoboVLMs could transfer VLMs to
arbitrary VLA structures with no effort. We will illustrate the four VLA structures in detail in the following section.1) One-step
ModelsOne-step models predict future action sequences using only the observation at the current time step t, i.e., a history
length of 1.
ˆat:t+L−1 =VLA(o t, lprompt).(9)
For one-step models, we formulate two variants: continuous-action model and discrete-action model:
Continuous-action model: In the continuous-action formulation, the VLM model first predicts a learnable token [LRN] using
the VLM backbone. This is achieved by fusing visual and language tokens (in an encoder-decoder architecture) or concatenating
multi-modal tokens (in a decoder-only architecture). An MLP is then used to predict the action vector:
[LRN]=VLM(o t, lprompt),
ˆat:t+L−1 =MLP([LRN]). (10)
The one-step continuous-action models include ACT [ 51], BC-Z [ 17], MVP [ 35], R3M [ 32], VIMA [ 18], 3D Diffuser [ 19],
RoboMamba [28], andπ 0 [4].
Discrete-action model: For discrete action prediction, we directly follow the straightforward next-word prediction similar to
VLMs, where actions are discretized into tokens like texts:
[ACT]1:7
t:t+L−1 =VLM(o t, lprompt). (11)
The one-step discrete-action models include RT-1 [ 6], RT-2 [7], 3D-VLA [ 53], LAPA [48], OpenVLA [ 20], and Embodied-
COT [50].
2) Interleaved-Continuous-Action ModelsInterleaved models receive observation-action sequences:
Ot = ([OBS] t−H+1 ,[LRN]), ...,([OBS] t,[LRN]),(12)
where Ot represents the input token sequence at time instant t, [OBS] denotes observation tokens and [LRN] denotes the
learnable action token and is duplicated for H times and insert into Ot with an interleaved format. The VLM backbone fuses
this sequence (in a decoder-only structure) and predicts the action sequence through an MLP based on each action token:
[LRN]t−H+1:t =VLM(O t),
ˆat:t+L−1 =MLP([LRN] t). (13)
The [LRN]t which is utilized to predict the action chunk ˆat:t+L−1, represents the [LRN] inserted after [OBS]t and fused
with the observations before t. The loss and action unnormalization procedure is identical with one-step continuous action15
models. At time instant t of inference, the input sequence contains only the current observation [OBS]t and the language
instruction lprompt, we add the learnable token [ACT] at the end of the input sequence and pass the sequence to the VLM
to predict the action. After the robot executes the predicted action, we add the new observation [OBS]t+1 and language
instruction lprompt to the input sequence to predict the action in the current step. The interleaved-continuous-action models
include GR-1 [ 45], OCTO [ 38], GR-2 [ 8]. Note that the interleaved-discrete-action models like GATO [ 36] and RoboCat [ 5]
are out of consideration.
1) Policy-Head-Continuous-Action Models:Unlike interleaved models, which fuse historical information within the VLM
backbone, policy-head VLAs only require the VLM to provide single-step multi-modal representations at each time stept:
ot = ([OBS] t,[LRN]),
[LRN]t =VLM(o t, lprompt). (14)
Historical information is then modeled and actions are predicted through an additional policy head h, such as an RNN [10, 14, 29],
transformer [13, 41], or diffusion model [9]:
at:t+L−1 =h([LRN] t−H+1 , ...,[LRN] t). (15)
The action chunk at:t+L−1 with sequence length L is predicted based on learnable tokens [LRN]t−H+1 , ...,[LRN] t. Each
of [LRN]t is identical. Note that the interleaved-continuous-action model is only available for decoder-only backbones. The
policy-head-continuous-action model can be built based on VLM backbones with both encoder-decoder and decoder-only
structures. The main difference comes from the language decoder. The input sequence of the encoder-decoder VLM fuses
only contains the text and learnable action tokens, it fuses the multi-modal input with cross-attention where the text tokens
combined with the learnable tokens are the keys and values, and vision tokens are the queries. The decoder-only backbone
directly concatenates the vision, language, and learnable tokens as input and utilizes self-attention to fuse the multi-modal
features. The policy-head-continuous-action models include RoboFlamingo [22], RoboUniview [25], and DeeRVLA [49].
At every inference step t, the current observation [OBS]t and language instruction lprompt along with a learnable token
[LRN] is concatenated as a complete input sequence, which is further passed into the VLM backbone. After the policy
head takes [LRN] and predicts the current action sequences, the robot steps with the predicted actions and obtains the new
observation for the next round of prediction.
D. Real Robot Platform
As shown in Fig. 3b, our real robot platform consists of a Kinova Gen-3 robot arm, equipped with a Robotiq 2F-85 parallel-jaw
gripper and two cameras: one static camera for capturing the workspace and another camera mounted on the end-effector. The
static camera is a Kinect Azure, while the wrist-mounted camera is a RealSense D435i. The workspace is a 55 cm x 24 cm
table, and there are more than 40 objects distributed across the evaluated scenes.
As described in Section II, we define one simple setting and four unseen settings for evaluation on this platform. For the
convenience of readers, we provide a more detailed introduction to these settings here. In theSimplesetting, the scene is
designed to closely resemble those in the training data. This setting is used to assess the model’s ability to fit the training
distribution. In theUnseen Distractorssetting, previously unseen distractor objects are introduced into the scene, but the
manipulated objects are still part of the training data. TheUnseen Backgroundssetting changes the background by adding two
new tablecloths that were not present in the training data. One tablecloth differs in color from the white background, while the
other features entirely different patterns. In theUnseen Objectssetting, the robot is tasked with manipulating objects that were
not included in the training dataset. The unseen objects used in this setting are the same as those in the Unseen Distractors
setting. Finally, in theNovel Skill Descriptionsetting, we use GPT-4 to generate three unseen synonyms for the verbs in the
instructions and randomly select one to replace the original verb, creating a novel skill description. For instance, "press" may
be replaced with "hit," "pick up" with "take," "close" with "shut," "pour" with "sprinkle," and so on.
E. Discussions about Structures
Although we have discussed four representative VLA structures, by a two-level categorization of historical information and
action space, readers may notice that these two dimensions are not entirely orthogonal, and not all combinations are discussed
and implemented in this work. This is due to architectural limitations and implementation challenges. For instance, interleaved
and policy-head models with discrete action spaces have not been implemented so far, because interleaved models are typically
combined with action chunk prediction, where the default lower triangular attention mask cannot effectively mask subsequent
actions for later steps.
IV. DATA AVAILABILITY
Datasets used in this study could be found at https://github.com/mees/calvin (CALVIN), https://github.com/google-deepmind/
open_x_embodiment (Open X-Embodiment), and https://huggingface.co/datasets/robovlms/bytedance_robot_benchmark_20
(BDRBench20).16
V. CODE AVAILABILITY
The source code of this study could be found at https://github.com/Robot-VLAs/RoboVLMs. It is also available at https:
//zenodo.org/records/17757179 [?].
VI. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Fund under Grant 62025304 and in part by the National
Natural Science Fund for Key International Collaboration under Grant 62120106005. We thank all the members of the robotics
research team at ByteDance Research for their assistance in real-world data collection, setup design, robot maintenance, and
experiments. The author Minghuan Liu is supported by the ByteDance Scholarship. We also want to thank @YouJiacheng for
his active and instructive discussion on X.
VII. CONTRIBUTIONS
Project Leads: Huaping Liu, Xinghang Li, Hanbo Zhang, Minghuan Liu
Methodology and Codebase: Xinghang Li
Model Training and Evaluation (experimental design, implementation): Xinghang Li, Long Qian, Hanbo Zhang, Dong
Wang, Minghuan Liu, Xiao Ma, Jirong Liu
Real-Robot Deployment & Experiments: Xinghang Li, Peiyan Li
Paper (logic, figures, visualizations, writing): Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hanbo Zhang, Long Qian, Bingyi Kang, Xiao Ma,
Peiyan Li, Jirong Liu, Di Guo, Huaping Liu, Tao Kong
Advising: Huaping Liu, Tao Kong, Hanbo Zhang, Xiao Ma, Bingyi Kang, Di Guo, Xinlong Wang17
Extended Figure 1: Visualization for rollouts that the best setting VLA built by RoboVLMs emerges the ability of self-correction.
For instance, in the Open The Oven task, the robot´s first attempt does not reach the oven handle, and it adjusts the end-effector
position to re-locate the handle at the second attempt. Note that the training dataset does not contain this kind of data.
Extended Table 1: The essential questions, research questions, and findings of the study.
Essential Questions Research Questions Research Findings
Q1: WhyVLAs
Q1.1: Are VLAs a proper choice for building
generalist robot policies?
A1.1: VLA is a promising path towards generalist
robot policies.
Q1.2: How does the best VLA built with
RoboVLMs perform in real-world scenarios?
A1.2: The best setup VLA built with RoboVLMs
appears strong effectiveness and robustness in real-
world scenarios.
Q2: WhichBackbone Q2: Which type of VLMs are more suitable
for constructing VLAs?
A2: Sufficient vision-language pre-trained on large
vision-language datasets benefit VLAs
Q3: How toFormulate
Q3.1: How to select the best-performing VLA
structure?
A3.1: Continuous action space with policy head
to integrate history is the best structure.
Q3.2: How do different formulations affect the
generalization and data efficiency for VLAs?
A3.2: Leveraging policy head for history fusion
is the best in terms of generalization and data
efficiency.
Q3.3: How to design appropriate training ob-
jective and execution paradigm?
A3.3: Diffusion and MSE training loss are com-
parable, executing action chunk is efficient and
effective.
Q3.4: Does Mix-of-Expert structure benefit
VLA learning?
A3.4: Introducing the Mix-of-Expert structure can
improve the performance and generalization of
VLAs.
Q4: When to LeverageExtra Data Q4: Which training stage should introduce
cross-embodiment datasets?
A4: 1) Extra in-domain data shows beneficial;
2) Post-training further improves high-frequency
tasks as well as few-shot performance.18
(a) Illustration of Mix-of-Expert structure. In original VLAs, both vision-language tokens and action tokens share the same 
weights of the original VLM FFN (Feed Forward Network). For the Mix-of-Expert structure, vision-Language tokens and action 
tokens have separate query, key and value projection layers for self-attention, and have separate feed-forward networks. Action 
tokens would only interact with vision-language tokens through self-attention. This Mix-of-Expert structure preserves the original 
parameters and forward process of the VLMs, and is claimed to benefit the generalization for the built VLAs.
(b) The illustration of considered VLA formulations, including several popular designs. For example, RoboFlamingo [22] is a 
Policy-Head-Continuous-type VLA, RT-2 [7] and OpenVLA [20] corresponds to the One-Step-Discrete-Action-type VLA. Octo 
[38] and GR [45] correspond to the Interleaved-Continuous-Action-type VLA with a fixed window size.
VLM FFN
Self Attention
 Self Attention
VLM FFN
 Action FFN
Add + Norm
 Add + Norm
 Add + Norm
VL 
Tokens
Action 
Tokens
VL 
Tokens
Action 
Tokens
Original MoE Structure
Interleaved-Continuous-Action-ModelsOne-Step-Continuous-Action Models
Text TokensVision Tokens
VLM
Text TokensVision Tokens……
Action Decoder
One-Step-Discrete-Action Models Policy-Head-Continuous-Action-ModelsRoboVLMs
VLM
Detokenizer & Reprojection……
Text TokensVision Tokens
VLM
 Action Decoder
Policy Head
VLM
…
⋯⋯
Text TokensVision Tokens
⋯⋯ …… Text TokensVision Tokens
⋯⋯
⋯⋯
 ⋯⋯
VisionTextHistoryCurrentDiscrete 
Extended Figure 2: The architectures of MoE and considered VLAs.19
Extended Figure 3: Illustration of training configurations for Bridge and Google Robot. The red crosses ( ✗) denote the excluded
training stage, and the small icons represent the datasets used, corresponding to those shown above in the figure. Take Bridge
Post Train as an example, two stages are employed: Stage 1: Co-training with cross-embodiment data, Bridge V2 dataset, RT1
target dataset, and RT1 extra data. Stage 2: Post-training refinement using only the Bridge V2 dataset.
Put Spoon on T owel Put Carrot on PlateStack Green Block on Yellow BlockPut Eggplant in Yellow Bucked
Average
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Success Rate
0.42
0.25
0.08
1.00
0.440.46
0.25
0.04
0.83
0.40
0.46
0.42
0.17
0.96
0.50
WidowX+Bridge
Bridge Finetune
OXE Co-Train
Post-Train
Pick Coke Can Move Near Open/Close Drawer Open Drawer & Place Apple
Average
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Success Rate
0.40
0.45
0.37
0.00
0.30
0.97
0.89
0.55
0.33
0.68
0.94
0.57
0.33
0.02
0.47
0.98
0.74
0.46
0.05
0.56
Google Robot
RT-Partial Finetune
RT Finetune
OXE Co-Train
Post-Train
Extended Figure 4: Ablation studies for cross-embodiment training onSimpleEnv. We evaluate four different training recipes.
On theWidowX+Bridgeenvironments, we test (1) BridgeFinetunefinetunes the VLA directly on the full Bridge datasets (tested
tasks not included); (2) OXECo-TrainCo-trains the VLA on OXE dataset [ 33]; (3)Post-Traintrains the OXE Co-trained
VLA on Bridge datasets. On theGoogle Robotenvironments, we test (1)RT-PartialFinetunefinetunes the VLA on tested RT
tasks only; (2)RTFinetunefinetunes the VLA on the full RT dataset (tested tasks included), along with (3)OXECo-Train
and (4)Post-Trainon the tested RT tasks stage.20
T ask 1 T ask 2 T ask Length
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Consecutive T asks Success Rates.
0.43
0.26
0.11
0.04
Few-shot w. OXE Pre-Train
Few-shot w.o. OXE Pre-Train
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Avg. Len.
0.57
0.32
Extended Figure 5: The effect of cross-embodiment pre-training on OXE datasets forfew-shot learning.
Extended Table 2: Simulation performances onCALVINbenchmark, all models are trained on split ABCD/ABC, and evaluated
on split D. KosMos P.H. represents the VLA utilizing KosMos-2 as backbone and policy head as architecture, built with
the RoboVLMs framework, and is maximally trained for 5 epochs. We will continue to use the expression of backbone and
structure to represent the VLAs built with RoboVLMs in the following paper. Note that KosMos refers to the VLM backbone
we utilized, and “P.H." refers to the policy head formulation.
Method VLA? Train Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
MCIL ✗
ABCD
0.373 0.027 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.40
R3M (Frozen) ✗ 0.085 0.005 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.10
V oltron (Frozen) ✗ 0.101 0.003 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.11
V oltron (Fine-tuned) ✗ 0.837 0.566 0.352 0.208 0.115 2.08
RT-1 ✗ 0.844 0.617 0.438 0.323 0.227 2.45
HULC ✗ 0.889 0.733 0.587 0.475 0.383 3.06
GR-1 ✓ 0.949 0.896 0.844 0.789 0.731 4.21
KosMos P.H. (RoboVLMs) ✓ 0.967 0.930 0.899 0.865 0.826 4.49
MCIL ✗
ABC
0.304 0.013 0.002 0.000 0.000 0.31
V oltron (Frozen) ✗ 0.026 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.03
V oltron (Fine-tuned) ✗ 0.569 0.272 0.105 0.038 0.014 1.00
RT-1 ✗ 0.533 0.222 0.094 0.038 0.013 0.90
HULC ✗ 0.418 0.165 0.057 0.019 0.011 0.67
GR-1 ✓ 0.854 0.712 0.596 0.497 0.401 3.06
KosMos P.H. (RoboVLMs) ✓ 0.980 0.936 0.854 0.778 0.704 4.2521
Extended Table 3: The detailed performance on SimplerEnv.
(a) Simulation performance onSimplerEnv-WidowX+Bridgeenvironments. We report both the final success rates (final) along with the
sub-task success rates (e.g.,Grasp Spoon).
Method Put Spoon on TowelPut Carrot on PlateStack Green Block on Yellow BlockPut Eggplant in Yellow Basket
Grasp Spoonfinal Grasp Carrotfinal Grasp Green Blockfinal Grasp Eggplantfinal
RT-1-X 0.167 0.000 0.208 0.042 0.083 0.000 0.000 0.000
Octo-Base 0.347 0.125 0.528 0.083 0.319 0.000 0.667 0.431
Octo-Small 0.778 0.472 0.278 0.097 0.403 0.042 0.875 0.569
OpenVLA-7b 0.041 0.000 0.333 0.000 0.125 0.000 0.083 0.041
RoboVLMs (Ours) 0.583 0.458 0.458 0.417 0.375 0.167 0.958 0.958
(b) Simulation performance onSimplerEnv-Google Robotenvironments.
Method
Pick Coke Can Move Near Open/Close Drawer Open Top Drawer
and Place Apple
Horizontal
Laying
Vertical
Laying Standing Average Average Open Close Average Average
RT-1 (Converged) 0.960 0.900 0.7100.857 0.442 0.6010.8610.730 0.000
RT-1 (15%) 0.860 0.790 0.480 0.710 0.354 0.463 0.667 0.565 0.000
RT-1-X 0.820 0.330 0.550 0.567 0.317 0.2960.8910.597 0.213
RT-2-X 0.740 0.740 0.880 0.787 0.779 0.157 0.343 0.250 0.037
Octo-Base 0.210 0.210 0.090 0.170 0.042 0.009 0.444 0.227 0.000
RT-1 (Begin) 0.050 0.000 0.030 0.027 0.050 0.000 0.278 0.139 0.000
OpenVLA-7b 0.270 0.030 0.190 0.163 0.462 0.194 0.518 0.356 0.000
RoboVLMs (Ours) 1.000 0.910 1.000 0.970 0.888 0.565 0.537 0.551 0.325
(c) Results on WidowX + Bridge setup for cross-embodiment dataset.
Method Put Spoon on TowelPut Carrot on PlateStack Green Block on Yellow BlockPut Eggplant in Yellow Basket
Grasp Spoonfinal Grasp Carrotfinal Grasp Green Blockfinal Grasp Eggplantfinal
Cross-Emb Pre-Train 0.4580.458 0.333 0.250 0.4580.042 0.916 0.833
In-domain Full Finetune 0.6250.417 0.500 0.250 0.417 0.083 1.000 1.000
Post Train 0.5830.458 0.458 0.417 0.3750.167 0.958 0.958
(d) Results on WidowX + Bridge setup for cross-embodiment dataset.
Method
Pick Coke Can Move NearOpen/Close Drawer Open Top Drawer
and Place Apple
Horizontal
Laying
Vertical
Laying Standing Average Average Open Close Average Average
Cross-Emb Pre-Train 0.940 0.840 0.890 0.890 0.571 0.222 0.444 0.333 0.019
Target Task Finetune 0.420 0.320 0.440 0.400 0.448 0.167 0.567 0.368 0.000
In-domain Full Finetune1.0000.9101.0000.970 0.888 0.5650.5370.551 0.325
Post Train 0.9900.960 1.000 0.980 0.740 0.2500.6700.460 0.05022
Extended Table 4: The performance of VLAs implemented with different formulations and training data scales. The results for
0.1x and 1x data are the best-behaved model checkpoints within 5 epochs, and the results for 5x data are the model performance
at 1 st epoch. We name different implemented VLAs by their VLM backbones and the way of history modeling. Results are
reported with models trained maximally within 5 epochs on the ABCD training splits.
VLA
Architecture
Data
Scale
Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
Flamingo P.H. 3B
0.1x
0.120 0.007 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.13
Flamingo P.H. 4B 0.448 0.084 0.014 0.003 0.001 0.55
Flamingo P.H. 9B 0.547 0.190 0.067 0.020 0.003 0.83
KosMos Inter. 0.938 0.701 0.445 0.270 0.140 2.49
KosMos P.H. 0.958 0.684 0.431 0.270 0.176 2.52
Flamingo P.H. 3B
1x
0.964 0.896 0.824 0.740 0.662 4.09
Flamingo P.H. 4B 0.936 0.847 0.750 0.667 0.586 3.79
Flamingo P.H. 9B 0.955 0.879 0.784 0.714 0.634 3.97
KosMos Inter. 0.987 0.915 0.824 0.737 0.660 4.12
KosMos P.H. 0.967 0.930 0.899 0.865 0.826 4.49
Flamingo P.H. 3B
5x
0.971 0.916 0.856 0.794 0.716 4.21
KosMos Inter. 0.989 0.940 0.892 0.842 0.795 4.46
KosMos P.H. 0.968 0.937 0.903 0.872 0.830 4.51
Extended Table 5: The performance of the built VLAs based on VLMs with different image token numbers and VL pre-train
data scales. The first three rows are flamingo backbones with encoder-decoder structures, the rest backbones are decoder-only
structures. Note that for VLMs with multi-stage training, the data scale refers to the data amount utilized for the final stage of
fine-tuning. “UNK” denotes unknown. Results are reported with the model checkpoints trained with 5 epochs on the ABCD
training splits, all models are trained with a single side view image for fair comparison. We surprisingly found that both LLaV A
and Qwen behave badly without an additional resampler to downsample the number of tokens.
Backbone #Token Data
Scale
Model
Size
Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
Flamingo 64 1B+ 3B 0.692 0.418 0.241 0.14 0.074 1.57
Flamingo 64 1B+ 4B 0.689 0.456 0.281 0.181 0.107 1.71
Flamingo 64 1B+ 9B 0.744 0.485 0.298 0.187 0.112 1.83
Qwen-VL 256 350K 9B 0.221 0.062 0.014 0.002 0.000 0.30
MoonDream 576 UNK 3B 0.717 0.473 0.296 0.198 0.127 1.81
Uform 256 10M 1.3B 0.778 0.577 0.407 0.300 0.216 2.28
KosMos 64 90M 2B 0.922 0.807 0.701 0.615 0.549 3.59
Paligemma 256 10B 3B 0.931 0.836 0.752 0.683 0.616 3.8223
REFERENCES
[1] Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch,
Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. Flamingo: a visual language model for few-shot learning. Advances in
neural information processing systems, 35:23716–23736, 2022.
[2] Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Shusheng Yang, Shijie Wang, Sinan Tan, Peng Wang, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou.
Qwen-vl: A frontier large vision-language model with versatile abilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12966, 2023.
[3] Lucas Beyer, Andreas Steiner, André Susano Pinto, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiao Wang, Daniel Salz, Maxim Neumann,
Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Michael Tschannen, Emanuele Bugliarello, et al. Paligemma: A versatile 3b vlm for transfer.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07726, 2024.
[4] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy Groom,
Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al. π0: A vision-language-action flow model for general robot control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[5] Konstantinos Bousmalis, Giulia Vezzani, Dushyant Rao, Coline Devin, Alex X Lee, Maria Bauza, Todor Davchev, Yuxiang
Zhou, Agrim Gupta, Akhil Raju, et al. Robocat: A self-improving foundation agent for robotic manipulation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.11706, 2023.
[6] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,
Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, et al. Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[7] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding, Danny
Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic
control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818, 2023.
[8] Chi-Lam Cheang, Guangzeng Chen, Ya Jing, Tao Kong, Hang Li, Yifeng Li, Yuxiao Liu, Hongtao Wu, Jiafeng Xu, Yichu
Yang, et al. Gr-2: A generative video-language-action model with web-scale knowledge for robot manipulation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.06158, 2024.
[9] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau, Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and Shuran Song.
Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. The International Journal of Robotics Research, page
02783649241273668, 2023.
[10] Junyoung Chung, Caglar Gulcehre, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural
networks on sequence modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555, 2014.
[11] Alexey Dosovitskiy. An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.11929, 2020.
[12] Chelsea Finn, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Model-agnostic meta-learning for fast adaptation of deep networks. In
International conference on machine learning, pages 1126–1135. PMLR, 2017.
[13] Luciano Floridi and Massimo Chiriatti. Gpt-3: Its nature, scope, limits, and consequences. Minds and Machines, 30:
681–694, 2020.
[14] Alex Graves and Alex Graves. Long short-term memory. Supervised sequence labelling with recurrent neural networks,
pages 37–45, 2012.
[15] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael
Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, et al. A vision-language-action model with open-world generalization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.16054, 2025.
[16] Andrew Jaegle, Felix Gimeno, Andy Brock, Oriol Vinyals, Andrew Zisserman, and Joao Carreira. Perceiver: General
perception with iterative attention. In International conference on machine learning, pages 4651–4664. PMLR, 2021.
[17] Eric Jang, Alex Irpan, Mohi Khansari, Daniel Kappler, Frederik Ebert, Corey Lynch, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn.
Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with robotic imitation learning, 2022.
[18] Yunfan Jiang, Agrim Gupta, Zichen Zhang, Guanzhi Wang, Yongqiang Dou, Yanjun Chen, Li Fei-Fei, Anima Anandkumar,
Yuke Zhu, and Linxi Fan. Vima: General robot manipulation with multimodal prompts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03094,
2022.
[19] Tsung-Wei Ke, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, and Katerina Fragkiadaki. 3d diffuser actor: Policy diffusion with 3d scene
representations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.10885, 2024.
[20] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov, Ethan
Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Openvla: An open-source vision-language-action model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
[21] Peiyan Li, Hongtao Wu, Yan Huang, Chilam Cheang, Liang Wang, and Tao Kong. Gr-mg: Leveraging partially annotated
data via multi-modal goal conditioned policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.14368, 2024.
[22] Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hanbo Zhang, Cunjun Yu, Jie Xu, Hongtao Wu, Chilam Cheang, Ya Jing, Weinan Zhang,
Huaping Liu, et al. Vision-language foundation models as effective robot imitators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01378,
2023.24
[23] Xuanlin Li, Kyle Hsu, Jiayuan Gu, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees, Homer Rich Walke, Chuyuan Fu, Ishikaa Lunawat, Isabel Sieh,
Sean Kirmani, et al. Evaluating real-world robot manipulation policies in simulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.05941,
2024.
[24] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for generative modeling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02747, 2022.
[25] Fanfan Liu, Feng Yan, Liming Zheng, Chengjian Feng, Yiyang Huang, and Lin Ma. Robouniview: Visual-language model
with unified view representation for robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.18977, 2024.
[26] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 36, 2024.
[27] Huaping Liu, Di Guo, and Angelo Cangelosi. Embodied intelligence: A synergy of morphology, action, perception and
learning. ACM Computing Surveys, 57(7):1–36, 2025.
[28] Jiaming Liu, Mengzhen Liu, Zhenyu Wang, Lily Lee, Kaichen Zhou, Pengju An, Senqiao Yang, Renrui Zhang, Yandong
Guo, and Shanghang Zhang. Robomamba: Multimodal state space model for efficient robot reasoning and manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04339, 2024.
[29] Larry R Medsker, Lakhmi Jain, et al. Recurrent neural networks. Design and Applications, 5(64-67):2, 2001.
[30] Oier Mees, Lukas Hermann, Erick Rosete-Beas, and Wolfram Burgard. Calvin: A benchmark for language-conditioned
policy learning for long-horizon robot manipulation tasks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(3):7327–7334, 2022.
[31] Arsha Nagrani, Shan Yang, Anurag Arnab, Aren Jansen, Cordelia Schmid, and Chen Sun. Attention bottlenecks for
multimodal fusion. Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:14200–14213, 2021.
[32] Suraj Nair, Aravind Rajeswaran, Vikash Kumar, Chelsea Finn, and Abhinav Gupta. R3m: A universal visual representation
for robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.12601, 2022.
[33] Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram Maddukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar, Abraham Lee,
Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar, et al. Open x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08864, 2023.
[34] Zhiliang Peng, Wenhui Wang, Li Dong, Yaru Hao, Shaohan Huang, Shuming Ma, and Furu Wei. Kosmos-2: Grounding
multimodal large language models to the world. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.14824, 2023.
[35] Ilija Radosavovic, Tete Xiao, Stephen James, Pieter Abbeel, Jitendra Malik, and Trevor Darrell. Real-world robot learning
with masked visual pre-training, 2023.
[36] Scott Reed, Konrad Zolna, Emilio Parisotto, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Alexander Novikov, Gabriel Barth-Maron, Mai
Gimenez, Yury Sulsky, Jackie Kay, Jost Tobias Springenberg, et al. A generalist agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.06175,
2022.
[37] Noam Shazeer, Azalia Mirhoseini, Krzysztof Maziarz, Andy Davis, Quoc Le, Geoffrey Hinton, and Jeff Dean. Outrageously
large neural networks: The sparsely-gated mixture-of-experts layer. International Conference on Learning Representations,
2017.
[38] Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke, Karl Pertsch, Kevin Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey Hejna, Tobias
Kreiman, Charles Xu, et al. Octo: An open-source generalist robot policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12213, 2024.
[39] Marcel Torne, Anthony Simeonov, Zechu Li, April Chan, Tao Chen, Abhishek Gupta, and Pulkit Agrawal. Reconciling
reality through simulation: A real-to-sim-to-real approach for robust manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03949, 2024.
[40] Unum-cloud. Uform: Pocket-sized multimodal ai for content understanding and generation, 2024. URL https://huggingface.
co/unum-cloud/uform-gen2-qwen-500m.
[41] A Vaswani. Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017.
[42] Vikhyat. Moondream, tiny vision language model, 2024. URL https://github.com/vikhyat/moondream.
[43] Homer Walke, Kevin Black, Abraham Lee, Moo Jin Kim, Max Du, Chongyi Zheng, Tony Zhao, Philippe Hansen-Estruch,
Quan Vuong, Andre He, Vivek Myers, Kuan Fang, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridgedata v2: A dataset for robot
learning at scale, 2023.
[44] Peng Wang, An Yang, Rui Men, Junyang Lin, Shuai Bai, Zhikang Li, Jianxin Ma, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou, and Hongxia
Yang. Ofa: Unifying architectures, tasks, and modalities through a simple sequence-to-sequence learning framework, 2022.
[45] Hongtao Wu, Ya Jing, Chilam Cheang, Guangzeng Chen, Jiafeng Xu, Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hang Li, and Tao Kong.
Unleashing large-scale video generative pre-training for visual robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.13139, 2023.
[46] Hu Xu, Gargi Ghosh, Po-Yao Huang, Prahal Arora, Masoumeh Aminzadeh, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Florian Metze,
and Luke Zettlemoyer. Vlm: Task-agnostic video-language model pre-training for video understanding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2105.09996, 2021.
[47] Zhengyuan Yang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Jianfeng Wang, Chung-Ching Lin, Zicheng Liu, and Lijuan Wang. The dawn of
lmms: Preliminary explorations with gpt-4v (ision). arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.17421, 9(1):1, 2023.
[48] Seonghyeon Ye, Joel Jang, Byeongguk Jeon, Sejune Joo, Jianwei Yang, Baolin Peng, Ajay Mandlekar, Reuben Tan,
Yu-Wei Chao, Bill Yuchen Lin, et al. Latent action pretraining from videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.11758, 2024.
[49] Yang Yue, Yulin Wang, Bingyi Kang, Yizeng Han, Shenzhi Wang, Shiji Song, Jiashi Feng, and Gao Huang. Deer-vla:
Dynamic inference of multimodal large language models for efficient robot execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02359,25
2024.
[50] Michał Zawalski, William Chen, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Robotic control via embodied
chain-of-thought reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.08693, 2024.
[51] Tony Z Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation with low-cost
hardware. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[52] Wenshuai Zhao, Jorge Peña Queralta, and Tomi Westerlund. Sim-to-real transfer in deep reinforcement learning for
robotics: a survey, 2020.
[53] Haoyu Zhen, Xiaowen Qiu, Peihao Chen, Jincheng Yang, Xin Yan, Yilun Du, Yining Hong, and Chuang Gan. 3d-vla: A
3d vision-language-action generative world model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.09631, 2024.
[54] Zhongyi Zhou, Yichen Zhu, Junjie Wen, Chaomin Shen, and Yi Xu. Vision-language-action model with open-world
embodied reasoning from pretrained knowledge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.21906, 2025.26
APPENDIXA
DISCUSSION
This empirical study mainly focuses on what matters in building Visual-Language-Action models (VLAs). We raise four
essential questions for building a VLA:Whydo we need VLAs instead of other generalist policies, and by outperforming
the existing methods by a large margin, we illustrate the necessity of studying VLAs. For the next step, we describe the key
components for building a VLM-based VLA:Whichkind of VLM backbone to utilize,Howto train the model to generate
action, andWhenshould we add cross-embodiment data into training stages. To answer these questions, we built a unified
framework for a fair comparison of VLAs and designed a series of bottom-up systematic experiments. To answer these questions,
we conduct extensive experiments across three simulators and more than 240 rollouts within 20 tasks in real-world scenarios, and
we can conclude from the experiments that: For theWhyquestion, VLAs could achieve high performance and generalization,
and is a promising path to generalist robotics policy; For theWhichproblem, we find that VLMs with sufficient vision-language
pre-training over large scale vision-language datasets is suitable for constructing VLAs. For theHowproblem, we can investigate
the performance, generalization, and data efficiency of different VLA structures, and find that integrating history observations is
essential for VLAs, and policy head is a more effective and efficient history aggregating method compared with interleaved;
For theWhenproblem, we compare three training recipes with cross-embodiment integrated at different stages, and conclude
that extra in-domain data shows beneficial, and large-scale cross-embodiment pre-training further improves overall as well
as few-shot performance. As a byproduct of answers to the raised questions, we built an easy-to-use framework for easily
integrating arbitrary VLMs and turning them into VLAs, namedRoboVLMs.
Under investigated observations.During our experiments, we found that VLAs built upon Qwen-VL and LLaV A, the
performance is surprisingly low, compared with their original performance on vision-language tasks. After adding a perceiver
resampler after the vision encoder, we found that the VLAs based on Qwen-VL and LLaV A could obtain great performance
gains and reach reasonable performance. We hypothesize that the performance gain is related to the image resolution and the
number of vision tokens in the input token sequence.
Limitations.Although we make every effort to investigate the key challenges in building Vision-Language Agents (VLAs),
this work remains preliminary and has several limitations at the current stage. (1) The action tokenization, policy head, and
corresponding training objectives are not fully explored in this work. For example, techniques like VQ-V AE, VQGAN, and
FAST action tokenizer remain under-explored in the context of VLAs. (2) The set of VLM backbones considered in this study
is limited and can be actively expanded. (3) Deploying such large models for real-time robotic control remains a significant
challenge.
Future works.For future work, we envision several potential directions for advancing generalist robot policies. Beyond semantic
generalization, an ideal generalist robot policy should be capable of handling long-horizon, complex task instructions (e.g.,
make breakfast ), reasoning through executable actions step by step, and generating meaningful physical interactions with
its environment. In our future work, we aim to explore the key elements required to develop policies with these advanced
capabilities.
We have open-sourced our codebase with detailed guidelines, model weights of the strongest VLAs built by RoboVLMs,
along with the real-world dataset used in our experiments. We anticipate that our research will bolster the community and
expedite progress in the realms of vision-language learning and foundational models for robotics.
APPENDIXB
IMPLEMENTATIONDETAILS
a) Hyper-parameters and Training Details.:With different formulations, the best setting of hyperparameters like batch
size, weight decay, and learning rate could be varied. Although OpenVLA suggests utilizing the same hyperparameters as in
the VLM pretrain phase, we find that a varied setting of the hyperparameters could improve the performance.
The hyperparameters for fine-tuning VLAs are mainly derived from the VLMs training setups, for example, we select the
weight decay from [0,1e−1] , and the learning rate as one of [1e−4,5e−5,2e−5,1e−5] . We conduct a grid search and
select the one with the best performance. We set the global batch size as 128 and the warmup ratio is 0.25 epoch (5K steps for
OpenX Embodiment pre-train). All models included in this paper are trained on a cluster of 4 x 8 A100-80G GPUs.
b) Checkpoint selection.:We find out that, normally, the performance of robot policies does not fully depend on offline
evaluation metrics, such as the validation loss, due to the compounding error in long-horizon rollouts. Therefore, it is challenging
to select the best checkpoint during training. For fair comparisons, we train all VLAs for a fixed number of epochs or timesteps.
Concretely, on CALVIN, we train each model for 5 epochs with a batch size of 128 truncated trajectories and report the
performance of the final model. For SimplerEnv, we train the model for 100K iterations with a batch size of 512 truncated
trajectories and report the best-performing model with a 10K-iteration training interval. In real-world experiments, we train the
model for 5 epochs with a batch size of 512 truncated trajectories, and we only report the performance of the last model.27
Supplementary Table 1: Hyper Parameters setup for different experiments. “EP" denotes the epoch. “Iters" represents iterations.
Experiment Name Backbone WindowSize ChunkSize InputView BatchSize Warmup Scheduler OptimizerLearningRate TotalEpochs/Iters
CALVIN Perform (Extended Table. 2) KosMos-2 16 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
SimplerEnv Training Recipe (Supplementary Fig. 1, Extended Fig.4)PaliGemma (Co-Train) 1 10 Side 1024 500 Iters Constant AdamW 2e-5 20K ItersPaliGemma (Post-Train & Finetune) 1 10 Side 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 5e-5 5 Ep
CALVIN VL Pre-train (Fig. 4b) Flamingo & KosMos-2 16 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
Real Perform (Fig. 4d) KosMos-2 8 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
VLA Structure (Table. I) LLaV A 8 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 2e-5 5 EpFlamingo & KosMos-2 & PaliGemma 16 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
CALVIN Generalization (Fig. 4c) All 16 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
CALVIN Data Efficiency (Extended Table. 4) All 16 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 1e-4 5 Ep
CALVIN Backbone (Extended Table. 5) All 8 10 Side 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 2e-5 5 Ep
CALVIN Training Objective (Table. IIa) All 1 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 2e-5 5 Ep
CALVIN MoE (Table. IIb) All 1 10 Side+Wrist 128 0.25 Ep Constant AdamW 2e-5 5 Ep
CALVIN few-shot (Extended Fig. 5) All 16 10 Side 128 0 Iter Constant AdamW 2e-5 5K Iters
APPENDIXC
BENCHMARKDETAILS
CALVINis a simulated benchmark for multi-task table-top manipulation. It provides 24k human-teleoperated demonstrations
annotated with language instruction. Each trajectory is less than 64-time steps, which includes 34 pre-defined basic skills:
rotate blue block right , move slider right , lift red block slider , place slider , turn off
light bulb , turn off led light , push in drawer , lift blue block drawer , close drawer , lift
pink block slider , lift pink block table , move slider left , open drawer , turn on light bulb ,
rotate blue block left,push blue block left,rotate red block right,turn on led light,
push pink block right,push red block left,lift blue block table,place in drawer,rotate
red block left , push pink block left , lift stacked blocks , lift blue block slider , push red
block right . The dataset contains four splits as scene A, B, C, and D. We train and test VLAs on different training/test
splits to fully analyze the capabilities, data and training efficiencies. During evaluation, the robot is required to complete a set
of 5 consecutive tasks. The metrics are the success rates of finishing these sequential tasks and the average length of completed
tasks. All evaluations are implemented on D split, with 1000 rollouts and 5 consecutive sub-tasks for each rollout.
SimplerEnvare designed as a suite of real-to-sim environments, which enables evaluating robotic policies in simulation as
efficient, scalable, and informative alternative to real-world evaluation. SimplerEnv created a comparable arena for benchmarking
robotics policies on private real-world setups as Google and BridgeData V2.
We adopt the following tasks in the Google Robot setting:
•pick coke can . The task assigned to the robot is to pick up an empty Coke can from the table and lift it. Under the
standard configuration, the environment is kept free of any distracting elements. The Coke can is arranged in three distinct
positions: lying flat horizontally, lying flat vertically, and standing upright. For each of these positions, the can is placed at
25 specific grid points within a defined rectangular area on the table. This setup results in 25 experiments per position,
totaling 75 trials across all orientations.
•move {obj1} near {obj2} . In the experiment, a set of three objects was arranged on the table in a triangular
formation. For each trial, one object was assigned the role of the source, another was designated as the target, and the
third served as a distractor. This setup resulted in six distinct trials for each triplet and triangular configuration. From a
total of eight objects—blue plastic bottle, Pepsi can, orange, 7up can, apple, sponge, Coke can, and Redbull can—five
triplets were randomly selected. Additionally, two triangular patterns, upright and inverted, were employed. This design
produced a total of 60 trials.
•(open/close) (top / middle/bottom) drawer . In this setup, the robot is placed facing a cabinet equipped
with three drawers and tasked with opening or closing a specific drawer. This experiment evaluates the robot’s capability
to handle articulated objects. The robot is positioned at nine distinct locations on a predefined grid within a rectangular
area on the floor. With three drawers and two possible actions (opening or closing), the setup results in a total of 54 trials.
•open top drawer ; place apple into top drawer . In this experiment, the robot is tasked with opening the
top drawer and transferring an apple from the surface of the cabinet into the drawer. This setup evaluates the robot’s
ability to execute tasks that require multiple sequential actions. The robot is positioned in three distinct locations on the
floor, while the apple is placed at nine specific grid points on the cabinet surface, resulting in a total of 27 trials. At the
start, the robot operates under the instruction to open the top drawer. Once the robot either signals task completion with a
"terminate" token or reaches the midpoint of the allotted time, the instruction transitions to directing the robot to place the
apple into the drawer.
For the WidowX + Bridge setting, we test the following tasks:
•put the spoon on the towel . In this setup, the spoon is positioned at one corner of a square on the tabletop,
with the towel placed at a different corner. The square has sides measuring 15 cm in length. The orientation of the spoon28
alternates between horizontal and vertical, requiring the robot to adjust the orientation of its gripper accordingly. This
configuration results in a total of 24 trials.
•put carrot on plate . This setup is similar to put the spoon on the towel , but the spoon is replaced with
a carrot and the towel is substituted with a plate.
•stack the green block on the yellow block . In this experiment, a green block is positioned at one corner
of a square on the tabletop, while a yellow block is placed at a different corner. Both blocks measure 3 cm in size. Two
square configurations with 10 cm and 20 cm side lengths are used. This setup results in a total of 24 trials.
•put eggplant into yellow basket . An eggplant is positioned randomly within the right basin of a sink, while
a yellow basket is placed in the left basin. The eggplant’s placement varies in both location and orientation but is carefully
arranged to remain easily graspable, avoiding proximity to the sink’s edges. A total of 24 trials are conducted under this
setup.29
APPENDIXD
DETAILEDPERFORMANCE ONCALVIN
Supplementary Table 2: Generalization and data efficiency of VLAs with or without vision-language pre-train on different
settings of the CALVIN benchmark. “Inter." denotes interleaved modeling. “P.H." denotes policy head. “No VL" suggests
models without VL pre-training. “5x" represents training with 5x re-generated training data. The results for 5x data are the
model performance at 1 epoch, and the best-behaved model checkpoints within 5 epochs for the others.
Architecture Train Consecutive tasks success rates Avg.
Len.1 2 3 4 5
KosMos Inter. No VL
ABCD
0.692 0.382 0189 0.085 0.036 1.38
KosMos Inter. 0.987 0.915 0.824 0.737 0.660 4.12
KosMos P.H. No VL 0.815 0.626 0.473 0.349 0.245 2.51
KosMos P.H. 0.967 0.930 0.899 0.865 0.826 4.49
Flamingo P.H. 9B No VL 0.733 0.444 0.270 0.161 0.077 1.69
Flamingo P.H. 9B 0.955 0.879 0.784 0.714 0.634 3.97
KosMos Inter. No VL
5x ABCD
0.833 0.588 0.421 0.297 0.209 2.35
KosMos Inter. 0.989 0.940 0.892 0.842 0.795 4.46
KosMos P.H. No VL 0.893 0.755 0.644 0.564 0.462 3.32
KosMos P.H. 0.968 0.937 0.903 0.872 0.830 4.51
KosMos Inter. No VL
ABC
0.432 0.162 0.044 0.007 0.002 0.65
KosMos Inter. 0.824 0.684 0.524 0.376 0.296 2.70
KosMos P.H. No VL 0.389 0.121 0.038 0.008 0.001 0.56
KosMos P.H. 0.980 0.936 0.854 0.778 0.704 4.2530
APPENDIXE
DIVERSEBACKBONE
Supplementary Table 3: Sub-task level success rates by tasks in CALVIN under different VLM backbones. All models trained
with 5 epochs on CALVIN ABCD training splits.
Task Name Flamingo-
3B
Flamingo-
4B
Flamingo-
9B
KosMos MoonDream PaligemmaQwen Uform
rotate blue block right 0.222 0.300 0.322 0.493 0.234 0.816 0.057 0.689
move slider right 0.736 0.989 0.805 0.987 0.988 1.000 0.442 1.000
lift red block slider 0.681 0.620 0.301 0.856 0.500 0.975 0.051 0.387
place in slider 0.683 0.813 0.765 0.874 0.361 0.957 0.308 0.490
turn off lightbulb 0.935 0.920 0.857 0.927 0.988 0.992 0.051 0.907
turn off led 0.990 0.925 0.966 0.970 0.990 0.987 0.793 0.754
push into drawer 0.422 0.318 0.296 0.705 0.688 0.814 0.000 0.743
lift blue block drawer 1.000 1.000 0.250 0.917 0.833 1.000 – 0.917
close drawer 0.118 1.00 0.990 0.986 0.991 1.000 0.160 0.950
lift pink block slider 0.754 0.633 0.471 0.861 0.444 0.945 0.059 0.703
lift pink block table 0.708 0.541 0.630 0.543 0.544 0.936 0.229 0.892
move slider left 0.952 0.952 0.961 0.970 1.000 1.000 0.787 0.994
open drawer 0.986 0.796 0.983 0.980 1.000 1.000 0.231 0.992
turn on lightbulb 0.737 0.225 0.561 0.949 0.990 1.000 0.170 0.775
rotate blue block left 0.358 0.588 0.596 0.636 0.500 0.955 0.000 0.964
push blue block left 0.554 0.509 0.696 0.677 0.424 0.727 0.000 0.661
rotate red block right 0.267 0.317 0.355 0.591 0.444 0.853 0.162 0.610
turn on led 0.962 0.864 0.902 0.985 0.973 0.970 0.562 0.526
push pink block right 0.365 0.574 0.538 0.627 0.271 0.559 0.027 0.412
push red block left 0.383 0.542 0.727 0.562 0.338 0.653 0.043 0.435
lift blue block table 0.470 0.474 0.564 0.611 0.691 0.955 0.111 0.889
place in drawer 0.969 0.932 0.928 0.971 0.958 0.994 0.750 0.931
rotate red block left 0.469 0.562 0.588 0.677 0.327 0.937 0.000 0.978
push pink block left 0.661 0.672 0.697 0.747 0.338 0.857 0.000 0.554
stack block 0.130 0.029 0.070 0.569 0.448 0.646 0.000 0.495
lift blue block slider 0.458 0.405 0.282 0.769 0.867 0.953 0.211 0.367
push red block right 0.233 0.561 0.557 0.457 0.194 0.414 0.103 0.350
lift red block table 0.629 0.608 0.554 0.606 0.640 0.967 0.091 0.835
lift pink block drawer 0.800 0.667 0.333 0.778 0.667 0.929 – 0.400
rotate pink block right 0.182 0.358 0.377 0.478 0.462 0.620 0.179 0.431
unstack block 1.000 0.500 1.000 0.946 0.950 0.935 – 0.880
rotate pink block left 0.578 0.442 0.479 0.698 0.146 0.964 0.034 1.000
push blue block right 0.091 0.421 0.320 0.400 0.066 0.324 0.000 0.500
lift red block drawer 0.400 0.625 0.800 0.769 0.667 1.000 – 0.55631
APPENDIXF
DIVERSE PH
Supplementary Table 4: Sub-task level success rates by tasks in CALVIN under different training splits and VLM backbones.
All models are trained with maximal 5 epochs.
Task Name flamingo-
3b-abc
flamingo-
3b-abcd
flamingo-
4b-abcd
flamingo-
9b-abc
flamingo-
9b-abcd
kosmos-
abc
kosmos-
abcd
rotate blue block right 0.831 0.893 0.770 0.722 0.882 0.960 0.974
move slider right 0.163 0.993 0.992 0.471 0.996 1.000 1.000
lift red block slider 0.642 0.970 0.858 0.610 0.927 0.906 0.993
place in slider 0.739 0.828 0.911 0.654 0.910 0.744 0.960
turn off lightbulb 0.852 1.000 0.956 0.135 0.964 1.000 1.000
turn off led 0.835 1.000 0.994 0.765 0.981 0.970 1.000
push into drawer 0.656 0.821 0.770 0.688 0.703 0.805 0.849
lift blue block drawer 0.818 0.950 1.000 0.800 0.737 0.944 1.000
close drawer 1.000 1.000 1.000 0.978 0.995 1.000 1.000
lift pink block slider 0.674 0.971 0.862 0.733 0.918 0.925 0.993
lift pink block table 0.871 0.851 0.892 0.872 0.899 0.913 0.961
move slider left 0.517 0.996 1.000 0.798 0.996 0.992 1.000
open drawer 1.000 0.997 0.982 0.991 0.997 1.000 1.000
turn on lightbulb 0.922 0.994 0.988 0.241 0.988 0.989 1.000
rotate blue block left 0.915 0.939 0.925 0.755 0.848 0.985 1.000
push blue block left 0.909 0.955 0.836 0.736 0.909 0.914 0.826
rotate red block right 0.893 0.972 0.905 0.727 0.959 1.000 0.973
turn on led 0.956 0.988 0.976 0.777 0.994 0.977 0.995
push pink block right 0.706 0.754 0.651 0.652 0.750 0.708 0.779
push red block left 0.983 0.920 0.949 0.911 0.908 0.910 0.848
lift blue block table 0.936 0.956 0.927 0.876 0.931 0.995 0.995
place in drawer 1.000 0.989 0.975 0.969 0.976 1.000 1.000
rotate red block left 0.942 0.908 0.953 0.961 0.952 1.000 1.000
push pink block left 0.889 0.920 0.973 0.959 0.933 0.959 0.883
stack block 0.489 0.641 0.595 0.588 0.604 0.801 0.908
lift blue block slider 0.607 0.963 0.826 0.595 0.869 0.835 0.978
push red block right 0.825 0.732 0.451 0.764 0.653 0.871 0.681
lift red block table 0.891 0.939 0.975 0.958 0.989 0.989 0.984
lift pink block drawer 0.444 0.800 0.714 0.333 0.923 0.846 0.857
rotate pink block right 0.768 0.896 0.794 0.787 0.789 0.985 0.986
unstack block 0.880 0.982 0.980 0.909 0.979 0.985 1.000
rotate pink block left 0.974 0.839 0.818 0.947 0.927 1.000 0.965
push blue block right 0.620 0.597 0.478 0.511 0.594 0.870 0.657
lift red block drawer 0.714 1.000 1.000 0.833 0.933 0.950 1.00032
APPENDIXG
ROLLOUTEXAMPLES INSIMPLERENV
Supplementary Figure 1: Qualitative results for SimplerEnv tasks.33
APPENDIXH
ROLLOUTEXAMPLES INREAL-WORLDEXPERIMENTS
Supplementary Figure 2: This figure illustrates the experimental setup of some real-world tasks. The models are evaluated
across 20 tasks, each with 5 rollouts, involving unseen distractors, unseen backgrounds, unseen target objects, and novel skill
descriptions. Note that some tasks exclude the unseen target object setting due to the lack of suitable alternative unseen objects.34
Supplementary Figure 3: Qualitative results for basic setting in real-world experiments.35
Supplementary Figure 4: Qualitative results for unseen background.36
Supplementary Figure 5: Qualitative results for unseen distractors and objects.37
Supplementary Figure 6: Our model exhibits several typical failure cases. For instance, it might prematurely close the gripper,
fail to accurately grasp the target object, exhibit repeated oscillations, or successfully pick up an object but cannot place it in
the correct location.